
--- PAGE 1 ---
bp Sustainability Report 
2025

--- PAGE 2 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our sustainability frame

Our purpose is to deliver energy 
to the world, today and tomorrow. 
Our sustainability frame underpins 
delivery of our strategy and our  
sustainability aims are focused on 
the areas that we believe are most 
relevant to the long-term success 
of our business.

These aims are supported by strong beliefs and 
foundations that help us do the right thing on 
safety, emissions, human rights and other 
fundamental matters. We are working hard to 
embed sustainability across our business and 
to engage stakeholders in achieving our aims.

Contents

Introduction

Introduction from our SVP strategy 
& sustainability

2025 at a glance

Our approach

Safety

Ethics and compliance

Sustainability in our processes

1

2

3

4

6

8

Getting to
net zero

Our net zero aims

Our aim for net zero operations

Our aim for net zero sales

Improving
people’s lives

Our people aim

Our people

Human rights in our operations 
and supply chain

Supporting local communities

10

11

12

15

18

19

19

22

23

Caring for
our planet

Our planet aims

Biodiversity

Water

Circularity and waste

Air emissions

26

27

27

30

32

33

Engaging stakeholders

Engaging with our stakeholders in 2025

Our reporting

Materiality

About our reporting

Glossary 

Deloitte’s limited assurance report

Cautionary statement

34

35

39

40

41

42

44

46

About our 2025 reporting

Since launching our sustainability frame 
we have continued to work to embed 
sustainability across bp and have made 
progress in several areas. Our work in 
2025 is covered in this report. 

Deloitte has assured selected key 
performance indicators in this report, 
see page 44.

In addition to this report, our 2025 
reporting suite comprises several 
other elements.

Other reports in our suite

bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2025

bp ESG Datasheet 2025

bp.com/sustainabilityreport

bp.com/sustainability

bp.com/reportingcentre

bp.com/basisofreporting

How to navigate this report

Go to another page of this report

Go to an online reference

«

Definitions in the glossary,
pages 42-43

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Introduction 
from our SVP 
strategy & 
sustainability

In the year since we reset our 
strategy and streamlined our 
sustainability aims, we continued 
to work on delivering our priorities 
and embedding sustainability into 
the way we work. 

This builds on the work of many years, and on 
extensive collaboration inside bp, so I want to 
start by thanking our teams for their 
commitment, especially in a year of change 
for our company. 

Thanks too, to our partners, suppliers and 
governments, our investors and stakeholders – 
and to our industry peers. We have much more to 
do and I am confident we will continue to make 
progress, adding to bp’s value. 

Safety 

At bp, safety comes first for all of us and we must 
continue to work towards our goal: eliminating 
fatalities, life-changing injuries and the most 
serious process safety incidents. While we made 
good progress on process safety, we deeply regret 
that in 2025, four people died while working in our 
US retail business. Two colleagues died in separate 
incidents while providing roadside assistance. In 
response, we have permanently stopped roadside 
assistance next to active traffic lanes. See page 4 
for more on the action we are taking to improve 
safety performance.

Performance in 2025

Our businesses have been driving our 
improvements in sustainability, including those 
related to our five aims:

Net zero operations« – By the end of 2025, we 
reduced operational emissions by 37% against 
the 2019 baseline. This is well in excess of our 
target of 20%, even though in 2025 absolute 
emissions increased, largely due to bp’s overall 
increase in production and changes to our 
portfolio. Our methane intensity« was 0.04%, 
significantly ahead of the 0.20% target, due to 
improved operational performance. We continue 
to collaborate with others in the industry on 
methane, including to promote the use of 
innovative methane measurement technologies. 
See page 12.

Net zero sales« – In 2025 the average carbon 
intensity of the energy products« sold was 
79gCO2e/MJ, meaning we achieved our target to 
reduce the average lifecycle intensity by 5% by 
the end of 2025 (against the 2019 baseline). This is 
due, in part, to changes to bp’s product mix and 
the implementation of bp’s strategy. See page 15.

Outside of our net zero aims, we continue to 
invest with discipline in the energy transition, in 
ways that are capital-light for bp, and which can 
leverage bp’s core capabilities for competitive 
returns and growth. 

People – Our aim is to support our employees and 
local communities through the energy transition. 
Our development framework for employees 
helps equip them with skills for the future. 
And as part of our social investment in local 
communities, we focus on building capacity for 
the future in the countries where we operate. 
For example, in Oman, our teams worked with 
national and local government on a social 
investment initiative that aims to support more 
than 44,000 Omanis with disabilities through 
training and education. See page 24.

Biodiversity – We achieved all three targets 
for 2025, with all new in-scope projects 
implementing net positive impact plans; 
biodiversity enhancement plans in place at 100% 
of our major operating sites in sensitive areas; 
and funding provided for eight restoration 
projects in the UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Brazil, 
Azerbaijan, Georgia, Türkiye and the US. See 
page 28.

Water – We made significant progress, reducing 
freshwater withdrawal by 15% and consuming 15% 
less, compared to 2020. At our bpx energy 
facilities in the US, we have invested in two new 
water wells and a holding pond allowing us to use 
brackish water – reducing the need to source 
freshwater internally and from third-party 
suppliers and reducing transport costs. This 
saved around $4 million in 2025.

We also helped to get freshwater to thousands 
of people through investment in community 
projects in India, Azerbaijan, Egypt and 
Mauritania. For instance, in India we are working 
with an NGO in Silvassa to build infrastructure to 
support water conservation and boost drought 
resilience, helping to save more than 35,500m3 
of water in 2025. See page 31.

Raffael Winter
SVP strategy & sustainability
6 March 2026

1

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 4 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

2025 at a glance

We operate at the heart of the 
global energy system, helping 
countries across the world with 
their energy needs and serving 
millions of customers every day.

About bp

Employees

93,700

(2024 100,500)

Countries of operation

61

(2024 61)

Safety & sustainability

Tier 1 and 2 process safety events«

27

(2024 38)

GHG emissions – operational control

34.3MtCO2e

(2024 33.6MtCO2e)

Our 2025 performance

Value creation

Underlying replacement cost (RC) profit«

Total economic value generated by bp 

$7.5bn

(2024 $8.9bn)

Barrels of oil equivalent – oil and gas 
production

2.3m

(2024 2.4m)

bp-operated upstream plant reliability«

96.1%

(2024 95.2%)

bp-operated refining availability«

96.3%

(2024 94.3%)

Major projects«started up

7

(2024 1)

$196bn

(2024 $197bn)

Payments to partners and suppliers

$142.5bn

(2024 $146.6bn)

Taxes to governments

$8.3bn

(2024 $10.6bn)

Social investment spend

$64m

supporting additional initiatives 
to benefit communities 
(2024 $76m)

Dividends

$5.1bn

(2024 $5.0bn)

Benefits paid to employees

$11.8bn

(2024 $11.2bn)

2

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 5 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our 
approach

Our approach to sustainability is built 
on strong foundations. They guide 
the way we work, underpin our 
focus on safety and support our 
sustainability frame and net zero«, 
people and planet aims.

In this section

Safety

Ethics and compliance

Sustainability in our processes

4

6

8

Image: Rotterdam refinery, Rotterdam, Netherlands

3

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 6 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Safety

At bp, safety comes first. We want 
to improve our safety performance 
and continue working towards our 
goal of eliminating fatalities, life-
changing injuries and tier 1 
process safety events.

Our safety foundations 

Our approach to safety is grounded in 
robust systems and practices: our Operating 
Management System« (OMS)a  and Safety 
Leadership Principles, along with our 
implementation of the industry-standard Life-
Saving Rules and Process Safety Fundamentals, 
which were both developed by the International 
Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP).

OMS

Our OMS provides a single framework for our 
operations. It defines a consistent approach to 
managing our operational activities – helping us 
to improve performance in delivering safe, reliable 
and compliant operations. It brings together bp 
requirements on health, safety, security, and 
environment social performance, operational 
reliability and regulatory compliance and supports 
the implementation of our safety rules and 
principles. Our OMS includes governance over 
variations, deviations or exceptions in its 
application in order to reflect a bp entity’s 
circumstances or meet local regulationsa.

Safety Leadership Principles

Process Safety Fundamentals

Our five Safety Leadership Principles are 
designed to drive a strong, consistent safety 
culture across bp. Informed by human 
performance principles, they support a culture 
of care by helping us understand how people 
interact with their working environment. In 
2025 we continued our ongoing work to help 
employees and contractors incorporate the 
principles into their daily work. For example, 
training offered to employees in operations 
stressed the importance of creating an 
environment where everyone feels safe to 
speak up on any aspect of safety. 

bp.com/safety

Life-Saving Rules 

Approximately 80% of personal safety incidents 
in our industry that result in fatalities and life-
changing injuries involve activities covered by the 
IOGP Life-Saving Rules. In 2025 we gained new 
insights about the effectiveness of the Rules in 
bp, due to the introduction of conformance 
checklists tailored to the needs of specific 
businesses. We have also embedded the Rules 
in a wider range of self-verification tasks in our 
production & operations business and included 
them in bp shipping’s new control of work tool. 
Through site visits, our safety teams also 
assessed integration of the Rules at our Whiting 
refinery and several terminals, pipelines and 
projects across the US. 

bp.com/lifesavingrules

In bp-operated businesses most at risk of 
process safety events (PSEs), we are embedding 
the IOGP’s Process Safety Fundamentals. They 
set out 10 principles designed to help improve 
awareness of process safety risks and many of 
them reinforce processes within our OMS.

bp.com/psf

Industry collaboration

We contribute to the development and sharing 
of best practice safety standards and protocols 
through collaboration with global safety bodies, 
including IOGP. Our senior leaders often take 
part in presentations at safety-related 
industry conferences.

Image: Employees at Whiting refinery, US

Advancing safety through AI

We are using digital tools to help improve our 
safety performance. In 2025 we also widened 
the use of artificial intelligence (AI) across  
bp and in safety we focused on deploying 
AI-driven tools that our people can use on 
a daily basis.

For example, we made it easier for people to 
use our digital safety learning tool, LENS, by 
installing it on handheld devices and adding 
a new AI Assistant feature to quickly identify 
and summarize information on any topic.

At our Whiting refinery in the US, we launched 
a pilot study of an AI-driven safety observation 
tool to monitor situations and activities that 
can pose significant safety risks – in real time 
and out in the field. Using the insights from 
this third-party tool, we can take action to 
support risk management.

The tool is also a useful coaching and learning 
aid. It is helping to improve bp and contractor 
teams’ understanding of operational risks and 
engaging them more actively in advancing 
our safety performance.

a For recently acquired businesses, there is typically a transition period while bp’s operating standards, as set out in our OMS, are integrated or aligned.

4

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 7 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our safety performance in 2025

We deeply regret the four fatalities and three 
life-changing injuries that occurred in 2025. 

Three employees in our TravelCenters of America 
businessa died at work – two while carrying out 
emergency roadside assistance and one while 
servicing a truck. A contractor in our Thorntons 
retail business died after falling from a ladder. 
One employee and two contractors suffered 
life-changing injuries. An employee in our 
TravelCenters of America business and a 
contractor in our Mauritania and Senegal 
business suffered hand injuries. And a contractor 
in our North Sea business sustained
a head injury during a crane lifting activity.  

We offered our support to the bereaved families 
and the injured workers. We know we have 
more work to do to improve our safety culture 
and performance.

2025 personal safety performance

We remain focused on risks that have the potential 
to cause fatalities or significant injuries. We have 
been recording and reporting on life-changing 
injuries (using the IOGP industry-standard definition) 
since 2023. Life-changing injuries decreased from 
six in 2024 to three in 2025a,b.  

In 2025 our recordable injury frequency (RIF)c 
also decreased by 21%.  

The reductions in life-changing injuries and RIF 
in 2025 are encouraging; however, we know we 
must maintain our efforts to continue improving 
our safety performance, by applying the
IOGP Life-Saving Rules and our Safety 
Leadership Principles.

Driving safety
Driving is one of the biggest personal safety risks 
we face at bp. In 2025 five severe vehicle accidents 
occurred (2024 5). The number of kilometres driven 
fell by 19% during the same period.

Improving driving safety in Oman
In 2025 our businesses in Oman implemented 
measures aimed at improving driving safety 
through strong leadership, contractor 
collaboration, technology adoption, and 
enhanced oversight. Leadership visibility helped 
promote engagement, and working in partnership 
with contractors helped them align more closely 
with bp’s driving safety requirements. Tools such 
as active fatigue and distraction detection 
technology and in-vehicle monitoring systems 
enabled real-time risk detection and timely 
action. Our businesses in Oman also reduced 
kilometres driven by taking steps to avoid 
journeys when feasible, for example by using 
tipper trucks more effectively during excavation 
work and running shuttle buses for employees.

2025 process safety performancea

We face our most significant process safety risks 
in our production & operations business, primarily 
in refining and production activities. In 2025 we 
continued to mitigate these safety risks by 
monitoring and strengthening both our process 
safety risk barriers and requirements in our OMS. 
In refining we continued implementation of our 
mechanical integrity framework, which is 
designed to improve equipment integrity and 
consistency as well as the way we address 
related incidents. We carry out regular progress 
reviews of our process safety improvement plans 
for refining and production.

Process safety eventsa,d
(number of incidents)

80

60

40

20

46

33

30

35

22

5

0

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

Tier 1

Tier 2

Our combined reported tier 1 and tier 2 PSEsd 
have decreased for the last 12 years, apart from 
in 2019. There were 27 PSEs in 2025 (2024 38), of 
which five were tier 1 (2024 3) and 22 were tier 2 
(2024 35).

In 2025 the number of reported oil spillse 
increased to 110 compared with 96 in 2024 
and 100 in 2023.  

Our operating sites share examples of good 
practice and our central health, safety, and 
environment incident investigations team reviews 
serious or complex incidents so systemic gaps 
can be identified and addressed. The introduction 
of AI to our learning tool, LENS, in 2025, has 
improved the way we share information about 
incidents, see box, page 4.

Emergency preparedness

We have disaster recovery, crisis, and business 
continuity management plans and work to build 
day-to-day response capabilities to support the 
local management of incidents. We regularly test 
our plans and preparedness through simulation 
exercises. In 2025 we conducted 37 large-scale 
exercises. For example:

• We ran an exercise in our Mauritania and 

Senegal business focused on managing a 
sustained response to manage and mitigate 
environmental impacts and protect coastal 
communities reliant on fishing, in the face of a 
shipping incident. Around 100 participants took 
part, including bp stakeholders, regulators and 
key partners. 

• Our US offshore business simulated a 

potentially high-consequence risk scenario 
involving a helicopter collision with asset 
infrastructure. The exercise engaged 320 
participants including external regulators.

• An exercise in India simulated a worst-case 

scenario ransomware event affecting multiple 
bp systems. It provided an opportunity for 
participants to understand the potential impact 
on safe operations, to consider legal and 
regulatory requirements, and to validate plans 
to maintain critical business activities. The 
majority of bp business entities in India were 
represented among the 160 participants.

a At the time of publication (March 2026), as part of the transition period for recently acquired businesses, safety reporting processes were still being integrated into bp’s safety reporting processes. As such, data from Archaea Energy, TravelCenters of America, Lightsource bp, bp 

bioenergy, X Convenience and new Eagle Ford assets in bpx energy are not included in 2025 reported data.

b In addition to the four life-changing injuries reported in the bp Sustainability Report 2024, two additional injuries that occurred in late 2024 were later classified as life-changing after the publication of the 2024 report, in accordance with the 180-day classification window for life-

changing injuries, bringing the total to six life-changing injuries in 2024. 

c Recordable injury frequency is the number of reported recordable injury incidents per 200,000 hours worked. 

d Tier 1 events are losses of primary containment from a process of greatest consequence, such as causing harm to a member of the workforce, damage to equipment from a fire or explosion, a community impact, or exceeding defined quantities (per API RP 754 tier 1 definitions). Tier 

2 events are those of lesser consequence (per API RP 754 tier 2 definitions).

e The number of accidental or unplanned losses of hydrocarbon from primary containment from a bp or contractor operation, irrespective of any secondary containment or recovery. Oil spills > 1bbl are defined as any liquid hydrocarbon release of more than, or equal to, one barrel 

(159 litres, equivalent to 42 US gallons).

5

bp Sustainability Report 2025

161793

--- PAGE 8 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Ethics and 
compliance

Our code of conduct

Our code sets out the principles and expectations 
that guide our daily activities. It provides a 
framework to support safe and ethical decision 
making, sets the standards for how we do the 
right thing, and empowers us to speak up without 
fear of retaliation. Our code is the foundation of 
‘Who we are’ – our culture frame, and it puts 
safety first. Together with our Safety Leadership 
Principles and OMS, it helps us act responsibly, 
comply with applicable laws, and implement our 
sustainability frame.

Our code applies to all bp employees, officers 
and board membersa. Regular mandatory training 
and communications help our employees 
understand how to apply it and how to raise 
questions or concerns. 

All bp employees are required to confirm annually 
that they have read and understand our code and 
act in accordance with its principles. We expect 
and encourage all our contractors and their 
employees to act in ways that are consistent 
with our code. 

Speaking up

Our code reinforces the importance of speaking 
up about anything that is unsafe, unlawful or 
inconsistent with its content, and makes it 
clear that everyone who works for bp has a 
responsibility to do so. It emphasizes line 
managers’ responsibility to listen and act when 
concerns are raised, and the importance of non-
retaliation. We do not tolerate retaliation of any 
kind and consider it to be misconduct. 

Our code also provides an overview of our 
concerns management process. Any concerns 
or enquiries, including those related to human 
rights, can be raised through multiple speak up 
channels, including with line managers, senior 
leaders and contacts in our people & culture, 
ethics & compliance, safety & operational risk 
assurance, or legal teams. We also provide access 
to a confidential global helpline, OpenTalk. It is 
always open and accessible in more than 75 
languages to bp employees, the wider workforce, 
communities, business partners and other 
stakeholders. Anyone has the right to contact 
OpenTalk anonymously, except where this is 
prohibited by law. 

We promote OpenTalk in our operated 
businesses, for example during inductions 
and daily team meetings, and by displaying 
promotional posters on site.

Read more about ‘Who we are’ on page 19

Concerns and enquiries in 2025

bp.com/codeofconduct

In late 2024 our retail concerns management 
policy came into effect, encouraging retail 
businesses to submit all reportable concerns to 
bp’s central ethics and compliance repository. As 
a result, we have seen an increase in the number 
of concerns and enquiries submitted to 
the repository. 

Total number of concerns
and enquiries raisedb 

2,940

1,024

629

208

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

2022

2023

2024

2025

Non-retail

Retail

Nearly 5,000 concerns and enquiries were 
reported in 2025 (2024 ~2,800).

The issue most frequently raised in 2025 was 
alleged bullying, harassment and discrimination, 
which accounted for roughly half of all concerns. 
The second most common issue related to 
allegations of fraud and asset integrity. In 2025 
the mandatory code of conduct training assigned 
to all bp employees included a specific section on 
non-harassment. We also ran employee training 
aimed at preventing fraud. See page 7. 

We take potential misconduct seriously. We 
thoroughly review allegations and respond, 
conducting investigations where appropriate. 
We follow disciplinary processes in line with 
local laws and take action and issue sanctions 
as necessary. 

These may include coaching or training, formal 
reprimands or employee separations. In 2025 
around 1,300 employee separations resulted 
from non-conformance with our code, including 
unethical behaviour. Almost 90% of these 
separations were from our retail business. 

We monitor trends in our Pulse annual survey 
data to help us mitigate issues related to 
misconduct. Read more on page 20.

Anti-financial crime

Managing bp’s key financial crime risks, including 
our exposure to bribery and corruption, fraud 
and money laundering, is essential. We operate 
in parts of the world that are higher risk in relation 
to bribery and corruption, so it is important that 
we engage with our employees, contractors, 
suppliers and others to emphasize that our 
commitment to ethical and compliant 
operations is unwavering. 

Our code explicitly prohibits engaging in any form 
of bribery, corruption or money laundering and 
promotes lawful and ethical business practices. 
It includes an expectation that we work to make 
sure our business partners comply with 
our requirements. 

Our group-wide policies covering anti-bribery 
and corruption, anti-money laundering, anti-fraud 
and anti-tax evasion, and related procedures, all 
include measures and guidance to assess and 
mitigate risks, understand relevant laws and 
report concerns. They apply to all bp-operated 
businesses. Where bp is not the operator, we have 
processes in place to manage our interests – 
including guidance to help bp asset managers 
influence operators in line with our expectations.

a For recently acquired businesses, there is a transition period while bp’s ethics and compliance standards, as required in our code, are integrated or aligned.

b Excludes duplicate concerns.

6

bp Sustainability Report 2025

1,1301,6501,8172,036

--- PAGE 9 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

We provide appropriate training for employees 
in roles assessed to be of greater relevance for 
managing bribery and corruption risks, money 
laundering and fraud that could benefit bp. 
In 2025 around 8,100 employees completed 
anti-bribery and corruption training as part 
of our ethics and compliance risk-based 
learning programme.

We assess our exposure to financial crime risks 
(including bribery and corruption, fraud and 
money laundering) when working with suppliers 
and business partners. If appropriate, we put a 
risk mitigation plan in place and will choose not 
to work with a counterparty, or to reject tenders, 
based on the results of our risk assessments. We 
also conduct anti-bribery compliance audits of 
selected suppliers when contracts are in place. 

We take corrective action with suppliers and 
business partners that fail to meet our expectations. 
This may include terminating contracts.

Read more about our anti-bribery and 
corruption programme at bp.com/
ethicsandcompliance

Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative 

The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 
(EITI) aims to promote transparency and 
accountability in the ways countries manage 
their natural resources to benefit their citizens. 
Through the EITI Standard, countries are 
encouraged to make disclosures relating to tax, 
revenues, contracts and licences linked to the 
extractive industries. This is intended to improve 
understanding of the economic contribution of 
the extractive industries and mitigate 
corruption risks.

We are a founding member of the EITI and sit on 
its board, which sets priorities for the 
organization and evaluates countries’ progress in 
meeting the EITI Standard. We also actively 
participate in national multi-stakeholder groups 
in Trinidad and Tobago, Mauritania and Senegal. 

We support the EITI’s initiative to encourage 
beneficial ownership transparency and we use 
beneficial ownership information in a risk-based 
way when conducting due diligence on our 
counterpartiesa.

When appropriate, we also back governments’ 
efforts to encourage and promote contract 
transparency. We recognize its importance to 
improve understanding of our industry, 
encourage accountability and build trust. We 
contribute to the public disclosure of contracts 
and licences consistent with government 
procedures in EITI-implementing countries 
where we have a presence.

Political donations

Tax transparency 

We prohibit the use of bp funds or resources 
to support any political candidate or party. We 
recognize the rights of our employees to 
participate in political processes and these rights 
are governed by the applicable laws in the 
countries where we operate. Our position on 
political activity is set out in our code of conduct. 

In the US we provide administrative support for 
the bp employee political action committee (PAC) 
– a non-partisan, employee-led committee that 
encourages voluntary employee participation 
in the political process. The bp employee PAC 
is governed by a board of directors and 
administrative by-laws. All of the contributions 
it makes are weighed against its criteria for 
candidate support, reviewed for legal compliance 
before funds are sent to the recipients, and 
publicly reported in accordance with US election 
laws. Contributions made by the PAC are from 
employee contributions and not from bp funds.

We take a responsible and transparent approach to 
tax, guided by our responsible tax principles which 
align with our code of conduct and our beliefs. We 
work to create open, constructive relationships 
with governments and tax authorities.

We comply with the tax legislation of the 
countries in which we operate, and do not 
tolerate the facilitation of tax evasion by people 
who act for or on behalf of bp.

bp.com/tax

Taxes paid to governmentsb 
($ million)

14,000

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

0

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

a Beneficial ownership refers to the individual who ultimately owns or has significant influence or control over the entity (UK EITI).

b Comprises corporate income and production taxes.

7

bp Sustainability Report 2025

5,37812,45311,93410,5878,333

--- PAGE 10 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Sustainability in 
our processes 

Our sustainability frame highlights the 
importance of embedding sustainability in 
our ways of working at bp. Our progress in 
this area includes:

• Sustainability is one of the balanced set 
of investment criteria against which all 
investment cases that meet our resource 
commitment meeting (RCM) threshold are 
considered.

• Our net zero aims are included in group 

planning processes.

• We have embedded sustainability 

considerations into our risk management 
process as part of the ongoing group 
management of risk. 

• Sustainability priorities are being built 

into business planning.

Policies and practices 

Our policies and practicesa set expectations and 
requirements for how we manage environmental 
and social performance before, during and after 
our activities. As part of our ongoing work to 
embed sustainability across bp, we review and 
periodically update these policies and practices 
to keep them aligned with our sustainability 
frame and aims.

Our Operating Management System 

Our Operating Management System« (OMS) 
provides a single framework for delivering safe, 
reliable and compliant operations. It includes 
environmental, carbon and social requirements 
related to our sustainability frame.

These requirements apply to businesses over 
which we have operational control. See more on 
page 4. 

Our internal assurance framework, risk-based 
assessment, and performance reviews help us 
align with industry standards for environmental 
governance. For example, some of our operating 
sites attest or certify to ISO 14001 based on their 
local implementation of OMS.

Governance

The board is responsible for setting our strategy 
and monitoring our management and operations 
as we work to deliver against our targets and 
aims. The board-level safety and sustainability 
committee oversees effective implementation 
of our sustainability frame and the management 
of significant non-financial risk, including health, 
safety, environmental, social and human 
rights risks.

In 2025 our executive-level group sustainability 
committee was replaced by the executive-level 
group operational risk committee (sustainability). 
This committee, chaired by our chief financial 
officer, provides oversight, challenge and support 
in relation to our sustainability frame and aims, 
and oversight of the management of potentially 
significant sustainability risks and opportunities.

At senior leader level, our sustainability forum 
comprises representatives from relevant bp 
businesses. It makes recommendations to the 
group operational risk committee (sustainability) 
and endeavours to align and improve the visibility 
of key sustainability issues. A cross-functional 
sub-committee of the sustainability forum also 
advises businesses on sustainability-related 
marketing claims. 

Sustainability planning 

In 2025 we started to shift our sustainability 
planning process towards a more business-led 
approach. For example, businesses now embed 
sustainability directly into their business plans.  

Investment governance 

bp’s investment governance framework enables 
investments to be assessed in a consistent way 
against a range of criteria relevant to our 
strategy, including sustainability criteria.

The board assesses capital allocation across our 
portfolio, including the level and mix of capital 
expenditure« and divestments, strategic 
acquisitions, distribution choices and 
deleveraging, as well as reviewing certain 
investment cases for approval. 

For acquisitions and organic capital investments 
above defined financial thresholds, investment 
approval is conducted through the executive-
level RCM, which is chaired by our chief executive 
officer. The RCM reviews the merits of each 
investment case against a balanced set of six 
investment criteria (one of which relates to 
sustainability) and considers any key issues 
raised in the assurance process. 

Identifying and managing risk 

We manage, monitor and report on the principal 
risks and uncertainties we face. Throughout
2025 management teams, the leadership team, 
the board and relevant committees provided 
oversight of how principal risks to bp were 
identified, assessed and managed. They 
supported appropriate governance of risk 
management including having relevant 
policies in place to help manage risks.

bp’s system of internal control is a holistic set of 
internal controls that includes policies, processes, 
management systems, organizational structures, 
culture, and standards of conduct employed to 
manage bp’s business and associated risks. In 
2024 we updated the risk classification system 
underlying our risk management process, 
reflecting, among other factors, the changing 
range of sustainability risks faced by our 
businesses to help improve their identification 
and management. In 2025 our businesses used 
the updated classification to categorize relevant 
risks through our risk management process.

The group operational risk committee 
provides oversight of safety and operational 
risk management. Sustainability-related risks 
are now reviewed, as appropriate, by the group 
operational risk committee (sustainability). Our 
operating businesses identify and manage risk 
using our OMS. We also monitor how risk is 
managed in non-operated joint ventures«.

Read more about risk management in the 
bp Annual Report and Form 20_F 2025 
pages 60-70

a For recently acquired businesses, there is typically a transition period while bp’s policies and practices are integrated or aligned.

8

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 11 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Influencing non-operated joint 
ventures 

We have processes for managing our interests in 
non-operated joint ventures (NOJVs), including 
ways to encourage sustainable practices and 
support them in pursuing their sustainability 
ambitions. Our NOJV solutions team provides 
an integrated one-stop platform to frontline 
businesses as well as supporting cohesive and 
effective governance. It provides training, expert 
advice and resources to employees working to 
influence NOJVs on sustainability. 

Our 2025 engagement with selected NOJV 
partners focused on the topics of net zero 
operations«, biodiversity and human rights.

Read more on our engagement with 
NOJVs on pages 14 and 37

As we explain in our disclosures, while the results 
of this analysis must be treated with caution, 
overall this test, including (as our greatest 
transition exposure) oil price scenarios tested to 
2030, reinforced our confidence that our strategy 
continues to be resilient to a range of ways that 
the energy system could evolve.

Read more: bp.com/TCFD

Working with suppliers 

We want to work with suppliers that value 
sustainability, respect human rights and work 
consistently with our code. Since publishing our 
sustainable purchasing position in 2023, we have 
made progress on its focus areas.

We are embedding sustainability in 
procurement by using digital platforms that 
improve transparency and efficiency. In 2025 
we introduced a tool to track the corrective 
action plans related to labour rights and modern 
slavery risk that we issued to suppliers. We also 
partnered with a sustainability ratings service 
provider and consequently, in one year, we 
tripled the number of our suppliers for which 
we have a rating.

bp.com/supplierexpectations

Managing climate-related risk

Climate change and the transition to a low carbon 
economy continues to be identified as a principal 
risk, covering various aspects of how risks 
associated with the energy transition 
could manifest.

Climate-related physical risks such as extreme 
weather are reflected in our principal safety and 
operational risk which covers process and 
personal safety and environmental risks.

Testing the resilience of our strategy 
In 2025 we continued to work with the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) in relation to its ongoing ’Climate 
Scenario Analysis Reference Approach for 
Companies in the Energy System’. We used 
the WBCSD Scenario Catalogue Version 3 (2024) 
as the starting point for consolidating our 
Transition Scenario Catalogue«a, which was 
used to inform our own scenario analysis.

In our climate-related financial disclosures in the 
bp Annual Report and Form-20F 2025 (pages 
41-54), we describe how we have conducted an 
analysis to test our view of the resilience of our 
strategy to different climate-related scenarios 
held in our Transition Scenario Catalogue, on our 
currently held internal reference group business 
outlook to 2030. This outlook aligned with the 
strategic direction shared at our Capital Markets 
Update in February 2025. We have also validated 
the conclusions using our most recent internally 
held plans (as at 10 February 2026). Financials 
were assessed against the priorities set out in the 
4Q/full-year 2025 results update in February 
2026. The catalogue includes some scenarios that 
are classified by the WBCSD and original source 
providers to be consistent with 1.5°C or well-
below 2°C outcomes.

a Our 2025 analysis used a suite of external scenarios from various providers, such as International Energy Agency’s (IEA) World Energy Outlook Net Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE) scenario. This took as its start point the latest WBCSD Scenario Catalogue (V3, published in 2024), 

which we then updated for relevant metrics where underlying source data providers (IEA, Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS), United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) have published more recent (or withdrawn older) transition scenarios. We 
have referred to this as our Transition Scenario Catalogue.

9

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 12 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Getting to 
net zero

Our ambition is to be a net zero« 
company by 2050 or sooner, and 
to help the world get to net zero.

In this section

Our net zero aims and performance in 2025

Our aim for net zero operations

Our aim for net zero sales

11

12

15

Image: Solar power is used to replace diesel at the well test 
unit in Block 61, Khazzan gas field, Oman

10

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 13 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Investment into transition businesses«

As announced in February 2025, we plan to 
invest selectively and with discipline in transition 
businesses. This investment was $2.3 billion in 2025. 
This includes $0.8 billion of inorganic spend, 
including the acquisition of bp bioenergy which 
completed in 2024.

Our disciplined approach to capital investment 
means that we make individual investments when 
we consider there to be a clear and compelling 
business case to do so in line with our balanced  
investment criteria. 

Energy outlook

The pace of the energy transition varies as a 
consequence of actions taken by governments 
and other stakeholders to address issues such 
as energy security, technology development, 
affordability and the pace of low carbon 
development. 

The bp Energy Outlook 2025 helps inform bp’s 
views of the risks and opportunities posed by 
the energy transition.

bp.com/energyoutlook

Consistency of our net zero ambition 
and aims with the Paris goals

We believe our net zero ambition and aims, taken 
together, are consistent with the goals of the 
Paris Agreement. By setting a path that enables 
us to make a positive contribution, working to 
build out and participate in many of the new 
energy value chains the world will need, and 
through our efforts to reduce our overall 
operational emissions, our ambition and aims 
support the world’s progress towards the goals 
of the Paris Agreement.

Our net zero aims

We have two net zero aims: for our operations and the energy products« we sell.

Net zero operations

Net zero sales

Our aim is to reach net zero« by 2050 or 
sooner for Scope 1 and 2 emissions within 
bp’s operational control (on a CO2e basis), 
including by maintaining ‘near-zero’ 
methane intensity« across our operated 
producing assets, enabled by supportive 
government policies.

Our aim is to reduce to net zero the average 
lifecycle carbon intensity« of the energy 
products we sell by 2050 or sooner, enabled 
by supportive government policies and the 
decarbonization of energy demand.

Both of our net zero aims make explicit what is needed to enable their delivery – and delivery 
of the associated interim targets and aims. It is important to recognize that our future 
business and investment decisions, which will affect the outcomes for these aims, will be 
intended to facilitate delivery of our strategy and investor proposition, applying our balanced 
investment criteria, one of which relates to sustainability.

Net zero aims 2025 performance

Aims

Net zero 
operations«

Measure/
coverage

Scope 1+2

Methane 
intensity«

Net zero 
sales«

Average lifecycle 
carbon intensity of 
our sold energy 
products«

2019 baseline

2025 
performance

2025 targets

2030 aims

2050 
or sooner

54.5MtCO2e

37%a,b

20%a

45-50%a Net zero

0.14%

0.04%c

0.20%

Near zero

84 gCO2e/MJ

7%d

5%d

8-10%d

Net zero

1

a Reduction in absolute emissions against the 2019 baseline.

b In 2025 bp made an adjustment to the operational control boundary for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. This means certain operations, assets or sources which were previously included, such as power generation on contractor-operated drilling rigs, are now excluded. This change 

has a less than 1% impact on reported operational emissions. For more information on the scope of bp’s operational control boundary see bp.com/basisofreporting. 

c Since 2024 reported absolute methane emissions from major operated oil and gas processing sites are based on our new measurement approach. Prior to 2024 these emissions were calculated using a different methodology and therefore the methane intensity reported in those 

years and calculated using that data does not directly correlate to progress towards delivering the 2025 target.

d Reduction in the average lifecycle carbon intensity of sold energy products against the 2019 baseline. The percentage change is calculated from the source data instead of the rounded carbon intensity number.

e We see abatement as including netting by means of offsets as necessary, in order to achieve net zero for the value chains in which we participate, in line with our ambition and aims.

11

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 14 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our aim for 
net zero 
operations«

Our aim is to reach net zero« by 
2050 or sooner for Scope 1 and 2 
emissions within bp’s operational 
control (on a CO2e basis), including 
by maintaining ‘near-zero’a 
methane intensity« across our 
operated producing assets, 
enabled by supportive 
government policies. 

This aim relates to our Scope 1 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions (from running the assets within 
our operational control) and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions (associated with producing the 
electricity, heating and cooling that is brought 
in to run those operations). These emissions 
were 54.5MtCO2e in 2019c, our baseline year.

Performance and actions in 2025

We achieved a reduction of 37%c against a 
targeted 20% reduction in our operational 
emissions by the end of 2025 and we are aiming 
for a 45-50% reduction by the end of 2030, both 
against our 2019 baseline. 

New projects coming online add to the challenge 
of reducing our operational emissions. Continued 
investment in abatement and further portfolio 
optimization will be needed to meet our 2030 aim.  

We also achieved our 2025 target for methane 
intensity of 0.20%. Our methane intensity for 
2025 was 0.04%, compared with 0.07% in 2024. 

Progress and targets/aims

Scope 1 and 2 emissions in 2025

Reduction in emissions against the 
2019 baseline (absolute basis)

Methane 
intensityb

35% 2021 performance

0.07%

41% 2022 performance

             0.05%

41% 2023 performance

         0.05%

38% 2024 performance

         0.07%

37%c 2025 performance

       20% 2025 target

45-50% 2030 aim

Net zero 2050 or sooner

0.04%

0.20%

Our combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions covered 
by this aim were 34.3MtCO2ec,d – a decrease of 
37% from our 2019 baseline. The total to 2025 
includes 18MtCO2e attributable to divestments 
and 5.7MtCO2e in emissions reduction activities.  

Compared with 2024 (33.6MtCO2e), Scope 1 and 2 
emissions increased in 2025 due to growth in our 
portfolio and seven major project« start-ups. 
This increase was partially offset by some 
improvements in performance, including from 
the improved management of abnormal plant 
conditions in our Tangguh operations in Indonesia.

In 2025 our Scope 1 (direct) emissions were 
33.7MtCO2e – an overall increase from 
32.8MtCO2e in 2024. Of these Scope 1 emissions, 
32.8MtCO2e were carbon dioxide and 0.9MtCO2e 
were from methane. 

In 2025 our Scope 2 (indirect) emissionse 
decreased by 0.1MtCO2e, to 0.7MtCO2e, 
compared with 2024. The enhanced use of 
lower carbon power agreements contributed 
to this decrease.

Key items affecting our Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
in 2025 included:

• Permanent increases of 0.6MtCO2e include 
projects that ramped up or came online in 
2025, for example the Greater Tortue Ahmeyim 
facility, the Azeri Central East platform in 
Azerbaijan, and increases in bpx energy 
production.

• Acquisitions within bpx energy increased 

emissions by 0.4MtCO2e.

• Delivery of emissions reduction activities 

reduced Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
0.27MtCO2e. See page 13.

• Divestments reduced Scope 1 and 2 emissions 

by 61ktCO2e.

• Total upstream« hydrocarbons flared 

decreased from 613kt to 570kt, primarily due to 
lower temporary operational flaring in Tangguh 
than in 2024, partially offset by limited start-up 
flaring in Greater Tortue Ahmeyim.

Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) GHG 
emissions (operational control boundary)c,d,e,f
(MtCO2e)

60

5.2

40

20

2.4

1.4

1.0

0.8

0.7

0

2019
baseline

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

Scope 1

Scope 2

Operational efficiency in 2025

We take a portfolio view across all our project 
improvement activities at individual sites. This 
allows us to prioritize the most effective projects 
– supporting energy efficiency, reduced carbon 
emissions and lower costs.

In 2025 we completed emissions and energy 
efficiency reviews in four of our production 
regions: North Sea, Oman, Egypt and Asia Pacific, 
and at three of our refineries: Gelsenkirchen in 
Germany, Castellón in Spain and Cherry Point 
refinery in the US. We expect to complete further 
reviews across our operating portfolio in 2026. 
Any opportunities identified are screened through 
existing business processes and plans that 
support our net zero ambition.

a Both the Oil & Gas Decarbonization Charter and the United Nations Environment Programme suggest below 0.20% as the threshold for ‘near-zero’ methane intensity. By reference to either of these thresholds, our 2025 methane intensity can be considered to be near zero.

b Since 2024 reported absolute methane emissions from major operated oil and gas processing sites are based on our new measurement approach. Prior to 2024 these emissions were calculated using a different methodology and therefore the methane intensity reported in those 

years and calculated using that data does not directly correlate to progress towards delivering the 2025 target. Prior year data is provided for information purposes, and we do not seek to directly compare prior years.

c In 2025 bp made an adjustment to the operational control boundary for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. This means certain operations, assets or sources which were previously included, such as power generation on contractor-operated drilling rigs, are now excluded. This change 

has a less than 1% impact on reported operational emissions. For more information on the scope of bp’s operational control boundary see bp.com/basisofreporting.

d Due to rounding some totals may not agree exactly to the sum of their component parts. 

e Including Scope 2 emissions on a market basis.

f Operational control data comprises emissions from source activities operated by bp or otherwise within bp’s operational control boundary. See bp.com/basisofreporting.

12

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

49.233.230.431.132.833.7

--- PAGE 15 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Emissions reduction projects and actions 
implemented by our businesses in 2025 totalled 
0.27MtCO2e.

Archaea Energy, our renewable natural gas« 
business, purchased renewable energy 
certificates equivalent to 125ktCO2e in Scope 2 
emissions savings on a market basis.

In addition, approximately 144ktCO2e of emissions 
reductions were achieved through energy 
efficiency improvements in production processes 
and flaring optimization projects during 2025. 
These included:

• The introduction of enhanced methane 

measurement and monitoring technologies 
in our Tangguh LNG plant, Indonesia, has 
provided insights that have enabled the 
operations team to optimize certain aspects 
of operations to reduce flaring. This included 
work on reducing flare purges, optimizing 
molecular sieve operations, and improving 
tanker loading, resulting in a 45ktCO2e 
saving in GHG emissions.

• Ongoing programmes at bpx energy such 
as the replacement of natural gas-driven 
pneumatic controllers, installation of solar-
powered air compressors, electrification 
measures, and reductions in fugitive 
emissions, delivering 80ktCO2e.

• At Cherry Point refinery we upgraded the 

absorbent in the pressure swing absorber, 
which is anticipated to reduce emissions 
by 28ktCO2e on an annualized basis. 

bp equity share emissions

We report operational (Scope 1 and 2) GHG 
emissions in the bp ESG Datasheet 2025, with 
reference to two boundaries – operational 
controla and bp equity share. bp equity share 
covers 100% of emissions from subsidiaries« 
and the percentage of emissions equivalent to 
our share of joint arrangements and associatesb. 
Our aggregate bp equity share Scope 1 and 2 
emissions decreased by 0.1MtCO2e in 2025.

bp.com/ESGdata

Actions supporting delivery 
of our net zero operations aim

Operational efficiency

We plan to continue to implement energy 
efficiency measures, to electrify facilities, reduce 
flaring and venting, and further improve methane 
management across our operations. Emissions 
reduction activities may include process 
optimization, steam heat recovery, and 
decarbonizing power emissions for our refineries 
and onshore upstream assets using power with 
lower carbon attributes, as we are already doing 
at several of our European and US refineries. For 
example, we propose to electrify the Sangachal 
terminal in Azerbaijan using power sold by the 
Shafag solar plant.

Examples of actions supporting delivery of our net zero operations aim
As different activities drive a reduction in the absolute emissions from our operations, the chart below 
shows an outlook of the potential relative scale of contribution of several specific activities towards our 
2030 aim, compared to each other. It is not intended to indicate actual impacts or contributions to 
delivery of our net zero operations aim, which is enabled by supportive government policies. 

Portfolio optimization

We are continuing to high-grade our portfolio and 
focus on our most resilient assets. For example, 
we have announced our intention to sell our 
refinery in Gelsenkirchen, Germany. 

Carbon capture and storage (CCS) 
and hydrogen 

Our investments and activities in CCS and 
hydrogen can be expected to contribute towards 
delivery of our net zero operations aim. In 2025 
we continued to progress the hydrogen and CCS 
projects we sanctioned in 2024, see page 17. This 
included the green hydrogen« project adjacent 
to our refinery in Lingen, Germany, which will 
help decarbonize our own operations. And the 
Tangguh UCC project in Indonesia, which we 
have invested in with partners, and will include 
development of the country’s first at-scale 
enhanced gas recovery project through 
carbon capture, utilization and storage. 

a Operational control data comprises emissions from source activities operated by bp or otherwise within bp’s operational control boundary. See bp.com/basisofreporting. 

b With the exception of bp’s share of Rosneft. On 27 February 2022 bp announced that it intends to exit its 19.75% shareholding in Rosneft Oil Company (Rosneft). bp ceased equity accounting for Rosneft from this date.

13

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 16 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our progress and actions 
on methane emissions

Methane intensitya,b (%)
0.20

Since 2024 absolute methane emissions have 
been reported based on our new methane 
measurement approach across our major 
operated oil and gas processing sites. Using this 
approach, methane intensity was 0.04% in 2025 
(2024 0.07%a) and the methane emissions from 
our upstream operations used to calculate this 
intensity were 25kt (2024 46kt). 

0.15

0.10

0.05

Marketed gas volumes were broadly flat at 
3,637bcf in 2025.

0

2019
baseline

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

The lower emissions and intensity in 2025 were 
primarily from improved management of the 
acid gas incinerator issue in Tangguh, Indonesia, 
reported in 2024. This was offset slightly by 
increased methane emissions associated with 
an asset swap in bpx energy operations. 

In the rest of our major oil and gas operations 
there was limited change in methane emissions 
year on year. The impact of emissions reductions 
projects was broadly offset by operational changes. 

We remain on track to reach zero routine flaring 
by 2030 in line with our aim under the World 
Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring initiative.

Methane reduction activity

Our work to reduce operational methane 
emissions is ongoing. In 2025 this included 
optimization in our current operations and the 
continued implementation of advanced designs 
in our new facilities. 

Methane abatement activities resulted in a 
reduction in emissions of around 30ktCO2e. In 
bpx energy, we achieved methane reductions at 
existing facilities by continuing to convert natural   

Absolute methane emissionsa (kt)

100

80

60

40

20

0

2019
baseline

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

gas-driven pneumatic controllers to instrument 
air; increasing electrification; and by fixing leaks 
identified in optical gas imaging surveys. At new 
facilities, we prioritize oil and gas pipeline 
takeaway to reduce flaring or venting.

In Trinidad and Tobago, at our Cassia offshore 
facility, we installed a power cable between 
platforms which enables power sharing, 
improved energy management and requires 
fewer turbines, contributing to a reduction in 
CO2 and methane emissions.

Methane measurement approach

The introduction of real-time methane 
emissions data gives us better insights on actual 
performance and has supported improvements 
to our source-level inventory, allowing us to 
continue to prioritize the most significant 
mitigation opportunities. Real-time monitoring 
included deployment of new technology for 
quantifying flare efficiency, predictive emissions 
monitoring on gas turbines, and additional or 
updated meters. 

We continue to use drone and aircraft-mounted 
sensors to verify reported methane emissions 
and have completed top-down measurements 
at all bar one of our major oil and gas processing 
sites. In some instances these are a repeat of 
previous years’ surveys. For many of our assets, 
top-down measurement verified our methane 
emissions inventory and, in a few instances, it 
enabled us to amend our inventory of source-
level data.

In bp shipping, we have deployed predictive 
emissions monitoring systems across our bp-
operated LNG fleet to provide more accurate 
quantification of methane slip from combustion 
engines – the main source of methane emissions 
on LNG carriers. We have also completed 
independent fugitive leak surveys on two of our 
LNG vessels during cargo operations.

Collaborating with NOJVs  

We intend to continue our targeted engagement 
and collaboration with the operators of our non-
operated joint ventures« (NOJVs) to help them 
reduce their operational GHG emissions and 
improve methane performance. 

This includes promoting the use of measurement 
technologies; supporting emissions reduction 
plans, aims or targets; and encouraging their 
participation in external initiatives such as the Oil 
& Gas Decarbonization Charter (OGDC), the UN-
led Oil & Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) and 
the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring initiative.

Several NOJVs and NOJV operators have already 
signed up to OGMP and set methane targets. Our 
collaborations with NOJVs in 2025 included joint 
shareholder seminars on emissions monitoring 
technologies, knowledge sharing on flare 
management and delivery of a methane 
management workshop.

For example, we ran a series of virtual webinars with 
Pan American Energy. Subject matter experts from 
both companies discussed methane monitoring and 
abatement for different emissions sources.

In 2025 for both our operated and non-operated 
activities, we retained gold status under the 
OGMP 2.0 reporting framework for the 
implementation of our source-level methane 
emissions measurement approach, and made 
further progress to reconcile this with our site-level 
measurement approach. This award recognized the 
work of many bp teams and collaborations with our 
partners, including NOJVs.

In 2025 we continued to advocate for sound 
methane policy, including the federal regulation 
of methane emissions in the US and the 
implementation of methane regulation in the EU.

Read more about our work with 
stakeholders and our advocacy activities 
on page 36

bp.com/advocacyactivities

a Since 2024 reported absolute methane emissions from upstream major oil and gas processing sites are based on our new measurement approach. Prior to 2024 these emissions were calculated using a different methodology and therefore the methane intensity reported in those 

years and calculated using that data does not directly correlate to progress towards delivering the 2025 target. Prior year data is provided for information purposes, and we do not seek to directly compare prior years. 

b Methane intensity refers to the amount of methane emissions from bp’s operated upstream oil and gas assets as a percentage of the total gas that goes to market from those operations. Our methodology is aligned with the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative.

14

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

0.140.070.050.050.070.04964530355231

--- PAGE 17 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our progress in 2025 

In 2025 the average carbon intensity of our 
sold energy products was 79gCO2e/MJ. This 
represents a 7%c reduction from our 2019 
baseline. We have exceeded our 2025 target to 
reduce carbon intensity by 5%. The incremental 
improvement in performance from 2024 was 
primarily driven by a growth in end-user power 
sales across our utility businesses – bp Energy 
Retail and GETEC, our trading business, and our 
renewable businesses – Lightsource bp and JERA 
Nex bp. It was supported by the high grading of 
our retail portfolio and improved identification 
of end-user sales volumes within the refined 
product category.

Energy included under our net zero sales aim was 
7.9EJ and the associated lifecycle emissions were 
621MtCO2e.

Find out more about our methodology and 
product lifecycle for net zero sales in the 
bp Basis of Reporting 2025

Our aim for net 
zero sales«

Our aim is to reduce to net zero the 
average lifecycle carbon intensity« 
of the energy products we sella 
by 2050 or sooner, enabled by 
supportive government policies 
and the decarbonization of 
energy demand.

The average carbon intensity is estimated on 
a lifecycle (full value chain) basis from the use, 
production, and distribution of sold energy 
products« per unit of energy (MJ) delivered.

Our target for net zero sales was a reduction in 
intensity of 5% by the end of 2025. We are aiming 
for an 8-10% reduction by the end of 2030 
compared to our 2019 baseline.

Progress and targets/aims

Reduction in the average lifecycle carbon intensity of 
our sold energy products against the 2019 baseline.

     4%

     4%

      5%

      6%

       7%

      5%

            8-10%

Net zerob

2021 performance

2022 performance

2023 performance

2024 performance

2025 performance

2025 target

2030 aim

2050 or sooner

Net volume accounting figures for 2025 reporting

Our net zero sales aim is guided by Ipieca’s sectoral guidance (2016) for Scope 3 reporting 
and our methodology follows a net volume accounting approach (see table below). We test 
our sales at three points in each commodity’s value chain to identify the point, for bp, where 
the largest amount of sold products is transferred. Further details of our net zero sales 
methodology are described in the bp Basis of Reporting 2025.    

Commodity

Primary energy 
(Production)

Secondary energy 
(Processing/generation)

Final energy 
(Sales to end usersd)

Oil/Refined products Crude oil production 

0.9mmb/d

Gas and NGL 
production 
1.1mmboe/d

Natural gas & 
Natural gas liquids 
(NGL)

Biofuels

Biogas

Power and heat

Refining 
1.3mmb/d

Refined product 
sales 2.3mmb/d

LNG liquefaction 
0.2mmboe/d

Gas and NGL sales 
1.1mmboe/d

Biorefining 
25mb/d

Biofuel sales 
98mb/d

Biogas processing 
6.1mboe/d

Biogas sales 
2.6mboe/d

Generation 
17TWh

Power and heat sales 
84TWh

Points to note:
• Volumes shown are consistent with bp’s energy product definition. For example, this 
means crude oil which goes on to produce non-energy products such as asphalt and 
bitumen is excluded from the metric. See the bp Basis of Reporting 2025 for further 
details.

• Highlighted cells represent the point in each commodity’s value chain where the largest 

volume of sold products is transferred. Consistent with net volume accounting principles, 
this volume has been included within the 2025 calculation of the lifecycle carbon intensity 
of our sold energy products.

• Volumes in this table are collected for use solely for the purpose of the net zero sales 

metric and as such may not be directly reconcilable with disclosures of volumes made 
for different purposes.

a When we say “we sell” we mean sales by a bp group subsidiary, joint operation« or bp equity accounted entity. See the bp Basis of Reporting 2025 for further information.

b At the point of net zero, our net zero carbon intensity aim also means we will be net zero on an absolute basis.

c The percentage change is calculated from the source data instead of the rounded carbon intensity number.

d Estimated based on available customer information. See the bp Basis of Reporting 2025 for more information on end-users.

15

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 18 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Share of energy delivered per energy 
product typea (%)

Average carbon intensity of sold energy 
productsb (gCO2e/MJ)

1

2

1

2

2

2

7

2

8

2

10

2

100

75

50

25

2019* 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025

Average carbon 
intensity of sold 
energy products

Oil/refined 
products

Gas/NGLs

Bioproductsc

Power/heatd

84

81

81

80

79

79

95

68

47

28

92

67

44

27

92

67

43

29

91

67

44

56

91

67

41

50

91

67

38

51

0

2019
baseline

2021

2022

2023 2024

2025

*2019 is our baseline year.

Refined

Gas

Bio

Power

Average carbon intensity of sold energy 
productsb (gCO2e/MJ)

Examples of actions supporting 
delivery of our net zero sales aim

Our net zero sales progress and reductions in the 
average carbon intensity of sold energy products 
are directly linked to the implementation of our 
strategy, including our efforts to decarbonize the 
products we currently sell and our investments in 
EV charging, bioenergy, renewables, power and 
hydrogen in line with the decarbonization of our 
activities and global demand over time.

As different lower carbon activities drive a reduction 
in the carbon intensity of our sold energy products, 
the chart below shows an outlook of the potential 
scale of contribution – towards our 2030 aim and 

compared to each other. The chart is not intended 
to indicate actual impacts or contributions to 
delivery of our net zero sales aim. Achievement 
of the aim and all interim milestones need to be 
enabled by supportive government policy and 
by the decarbonization of energy demand.

The indicative contributions take into account 
the effect of both the decarbonization of energy 
products over time and the relative proportion 
of higher carbon to lower carbon products in 
bp’s energy mix. For example, increasing the 
amount of renewable power we sell could 
reduce the average carbon intensity of our 
sold power products.

Examples of actions supporting delivery of our net zero sales aim

85

80

75

81

81

(5%)

(8%)
(10%)

70

2019

2021

2022

2023

2024 2025

Performance

2025 target

2030 aim

a The share of energy is based on the total energy associated with sales of energy products and with electricity represented as fossil equivalence of sold energy. Due to rounding the sum of the component parts may not exactly equal 100%. This does not affect the underlying values.

b The aggregate lifecycle emissions and energy values used in the calculation of the average lifecycle carbon intensity of sold energy products is provided in the bp ESG Datasheet 2025.

c Includes biofuels and biogas.

d Covers all power, including renewable and non-renewable.

16

bp Sustainability Report 2025

64606260605933363431302984807979

--- PAGE 19 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

In working towards our net zero sales aim, we 
recognize that benefits arise over the longer term 
– for example, as the bioenergy market develops 
or as utilization rates for EV charge points« 
increase in future as EV uptake grows. 

Examples of our investment:

Bioenergy
We see potential to grow our biofuels 
production« and in 2025 we continued to 
produce biofuels through co-processing at 
some of our refineries. 

Our renewable natural gas (RNG)« business, 
Archaea Energy, continued its growth throughout 
2025. Using its modular design it started up eight 
new RNG landfill plants in 2025, including Middle 
Point, one of its largest modular design plants in 
Murfreesboro, Tennessee, US. 

We increased our biofuels production in 2025 
by around 19% year on year, as a result of full 
ownership and increased contributions from
bp bioenergy. We improved biogas supply 
volumes« by around 5% year on year reflecting 
the growth from Archaea Energy.

We continue to increase the volumes of 
sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) we sell and have 
delivered SAF to over 60 locations across 22 
countries in support of customer demand and our 
obligations to meet UK and EU SAF mandates. We 
have also shipped our first cargoes of SAF from 
Lianyungang Jia'ao hydro-processed esters and 
fatty acids (HEFA) biofuels plant in China, in which 
we hold a minority stake.

bp launches biofuels 
joint venture with 
Corteva

In January 2026 we launched Etlas, a 
50:50 joint venture« (JV) with Corteva 
Inc, to develop crop-based feedstocks 
for biofuels such as sustainable 
aviation fuel and renewable diesel. 
Combining Corteva’s seed technology 
with bp’s refining and fuel marketing 
expertise, Etlas intends to deliver 
feedstocks for use in co-processing. By 
the mid-2030s, it aims to produce one 
million tonnes of feedstock annually, 
enough for around 800,000 tonnes    
of biofuels.

EV charging
Along with our fuel and convenience retail 
network, our investment in EV charging helps us 
meet our customers’ evolving mobility needs. We 
continue to build scale in our four key markets.

In 2025 we grew both the energy we sold and the 
number of EV charge points. We sold more than 
1.5TWh of energy and increased the number of 
EV charge points to more than 41,000 globally.

Renewables and power
As announced in February 2025, we have changed 
our model for renewables – we now intend to 
make selective and disciplined investments in 
partnerships that will be capital-light for bp. 

We took full ownership of Lightsource bp in 2024 
and, in 2025, announced our intention to bring a 
strategic partner into the business. Lightsource 
bp has a proven track record, having delivered 
more than 12GW to final investment decision« 
since its inception.

In August 2025 we formed JERA Nex bp, a 50:50 
offshore wind JV. The new JV brings together 
each company’s complementary expertise for a 
balanced mix of operating assets and 
development projects.

Hydrogen and CCS
We have high-graded and focused our hydrogen 
portfolio, prioritizing projects in jurisdictions 
where there is an adequate regulatory 
framework, and where we have access to 
value chain opportunities, whether our own 
demand or through customer demand. 

In 2025 we focused on delivering two green 
hydrogen« projects sanctioned in 2024: our 
50:50 JV with Iberdrola at our Castellón refinery 
in Spain, and next to our refinery in Lingen, 
Germany. These projects are expected 
to start up in 2026 and 2027 respectively.

In Teesside, alongside our partners, we continued 
to work with government and regulators to 
progress two projects: the Northern Endurance 
Partnership, which will provide CO2 transport and 
storage, and Net Zero Teesside Power, which 
could become the world’s first gas-fired power 
station with carbon capture technology. 

17

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

Image: Aral pulse charge point, Germany

Image: Construction has begun on the green hydrogen 
project at our Castellón refinery, Spain

--- PAGE 20 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Improving 
people’s 
lives

In this section

Our people aim

Our people

Human rights in our operations and supply chain

Supporting local communities

19

19

22

23

Image: Employees at our business and technology centre in 
Pune, India

18

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 21 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our people aim

Our aim is to support our 
employees and local communities 
through the energy transition by:

• Equipping employees with skills 
that can improve their access to 
opportunities in the energy 
transition.

• Developing targeted just 

transition plansa for select assets 
or regions, that help manage 
potential impacts on and 
opportunities for people as we 
transition.

• Fostering an inclusive culture 

with an employee workforce that 
reflects the communities where 
we work.

Social policies and practices

Our human rights policy and our code of conduct 
shape the way we work. Our human rights policy 
aligns with the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights and is a foundation of our 
approach to sustainability. Our code of conduct 
sets the standard for doing the right thing and 
underpins our culture frame, ‘Who we are’, 
see page 6. 

Both our code of conduct and our Operating 
Management System (OMS)« contain 
requirements to respect the rights of workers 
and community members. Our OMS also 
provides guidance on assessing social context 
and conducting community engagement, 
including establishing consultation and 
grievance mechanisms. 

bp.com/humanrights

bp.com/ourapproach

We also took steps to help our teams become 
more effective, providing support for teams to 
help them navigate change, strengthen 
effectiveness, and improve performance.

The number of employees and the level of activity 
in our business and technology centres in India, 
Hungary, Malaysia and Brazil continued to 
increase in 2025 and we took steps to integrate 
our employees in these centres into our company 
culture. For example, we launched materials to  
support cultural fluency and help teams shape 
their culture collectively, regardless of location. 
In addition, our Global Reach business resource 
group started running a series of cultural 
awareness sessions, initially in Brazil, a key 
growth market for bp.

Read more about our business resource 
groups on page 20

bp.com/ourbeliefs

Our people

Our people are crucial to delivering our strategy 
and aims. We help them succeed by fostering an 
inclusive culture, investing in their professional 
development, and focusing on employee wellbeing.

2025 was a year of transformation for bp. As we 
reset our strategy, we continued investing in our 
employees and supporting them through change, 
including those who left bp or are set to do so. 
You can read more about this support on 
page 21.

Our culture

Our culture frame, ‘Who we are’, defines what 
we stand for and is integrated into our code of 
conduct. It sets out our three core beliefs – Live 
our purpose, Play to win, Care for others – and is 
underpinned by our unwavering focus on safety. 

In 2025 we reset our approach to performance 
management to reflect our organizational focus 
on delivering bp’s strategy. It aims to align 
everyone in the company and create a better 
connection between delivery and reward. This 
includedb:

• The introduction of common goals aligned 
across entity, sub-entity and at individual 
employee level. 

• The introduction of business-level scorecards 
alongside the group scorecard to account for 
local delivery and performance. 

• A new annual review cycle with more frequent, 
higher quality conversations for employees.

• A simplified performance rating system linked 
to discretionary annual cash bonus outcomes.

a We will work to develop just transition plans with input from potentially affected stakeholders to help manage social risks and opportunities.

b This reset approach to performance management is subject to local law, including consultation where required.

19

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 22 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

• Diversity@Sea – Along with 11 other companies, 

we participated in a pilot study aimed at 
improving gender balance, inclusivity, and 
working and living conditions for shipping 
crews. The study addressed a range of issues 
including menstrual needs, personal hygiene 
and wifi access. Building on feedback from 
more than 400 participating seafarers, a set of 
actionable crew guidelines was published in 
March 2025 by the All Aboard Alliance – part of 
the Global Maritime Forum – to help improve 
wellbeing and promote inclusivity in the 
maritime industry. 

• Inclusion for First Nations people – In Australia, 
the bp First Nations business resource group 
set up an advisory group to provide guidance 
on inclusion across bp Australia. The group will 
play a key role in many initiatives, including our 
2026 update to our Reconciliation Action Plan. 
As part of our sponsorship of the Indigenous 
Nations athletics event in Australia, we 
awarded two scholarships to Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander students. 

Our business resource groups
To promote an inclusive culture, we support 13 
employee-run business resource groups (BRGs) – 
including those focused on social mobility, age 
diversity, gender, ethnicity and disability. Open 
to all employees, they give voice to a breadth 
of employee perspectives and help build 
community at bp. All our BRGs are sponsored 
by a senior leader. 

Gender and ethnicity representation
In 2025 global female representation in bp was 
37% (2024 38%). In the UK, our ethnic minority 
representation remained stable at 22% of our 
overall workforce (2024 22%).

Selection decisions such as hiring, promotions 
and terminations are based on merit. 

In 2026 we plan to refresh our approach to 
inclusion, informed by insights and learning 
from the past five years.

Building an inclusive culture 

To deliver our strategy we believe we must 
capitalize on the diverse experiences, 
perspectives and skills of a workforce that 
represents the communities in which we operate. 

Using data to support inclusion

Where legally permitted to do so, we encourage 
all employees, including new joiners, to 
voluntarily share personal demographic 
information through our self-ID survey.

We review employee data regularly to improve 
our understanding and highlight areas 
for improvement. 

Inclusion in 2025

We continued our work to build our inclusive 
culture and support the development of our 
diverse workforce:

• Inclusion in India – As we grow our operations 
in India, our goal is to be a gender-inclusive 
organization. In support, we have created a 
women’s network and an India diversity & 
inclusion council. Alongside global gender-
inclusive benefits, such as non-birth parent and 
adoption leave, we have introduced a local 
policy on the prevention of sexual harassment. 
Health is also a priority, and our health and 
wellbeing programme includes free women’s 
health sessions and mental health support. 

Employee sentiment 

We monitor employee sentiment 
through several channels, including 
our Pulse annual employee survey. 
What we learn informs our work on 
culture. The 2025 survey received 
responses from 47,000 employees in 
office, frontline and retail roles.

The results reflect the significant 
organizational changes happening 
across bp – especially in the regions 
and teams affected by transformation. 
Our  overall engagement score 
decreased to  66%a in the annual 
survey; but we saw an upward 
trajectory through the second half of 
2025 via our continuous listening 
survey, which is sent weekly to a 
representative sample of around  8% 
of employees. We also ran employee 
focus groups  to discuss topics such 
as strategy and transformation.   

Based on the 2025 Pulse survey 
results, we have prioritized three 
themes for engagement in 2026. Two 
of these – emphasizing psychological 
safety, and strategy and performance 
– were also priorities in 2025. The third 
– career and development – is new. 
We believe this focus will respond to 
employee feedback and help us deliver 
our business priorities. 

Read more in the bp Annual 
Report and Form 20-F 2025, 
page 80

a As a result of changes to the question set and the inclusion of employees from our retail business in the 2025 Pulse survey, the engagement score for 2025 is not comparable with prior years.

20 bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 23 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Building capability and 
developing our people

We run and support training, education and 
employability initiatives that can help our employees 
and people in local communities acquire skills and 
experience. We continue to build skills forecasts and 
implement capability plans for our businesses. 

Training and development

Our training and development framework covers 
safety, leadership, technical and operational, and 
future skills. Our mandatory training covers 
conformance with bp standards and applicable laws 
and regulations. All permanent bp employees can 
use a performance development platform, 
Focus@bp, to set goals, get feedback and shape 
discussions about development and progression.

In 2025 bp employees collectively completed 
around 2.1 million hours of formal learning 
(2024 1.2 million hours).  We also introduced new 
training for leaders that focuses on priority skills 
including leading for change, driving team 
performance and taking accountability.

Sustainability training and development
Our sustainability-related training supports our 
three focus areas – getting to net zero, improving 
people’s lives and caring for our planet. It is also 
informed by our intention to equip employees 
with skills and capabilities relevant to our 
strategy and the energy transition. 

In 2025 we piloted an excellence programme for all 
employees in our health, safety, environment and 
carbon disciplines and offered courses related to 
carbon capture and storage for subsurface 
professional and non-specialists. 

We also ran a sustainability masterclass for first-
level and senior leaders as part of our leadership 
development offer. Since 2024 around 650 leaders 
have attended this training.

Read more about enabling a just transition 
on page 23

Global Sustainability Network

Our Global Sustainability Network (GSN), an 
employee-led initiative, with regional chapters 
around the world, helps embed sustainability into 
our culture. It encourages participants to learn 
and take action. In 2025 the UK chapter ran 
multiple events, including learning sessions 
and skills workshops.

Fair wage and remuneration

We have embedded our approach to fair wage 
into existing pay review processes and continue 
to make decisions on wages based on a range of 
sources including fair wage data, market pay 
sources and local market conditions. Oversight 
continues through annual reviews following a 
defined governance structure.

In the UK, all employees earn at least the 
UK Living Wage.

Linking remuneration to sustainability

The bonus scorecard for 2025 against which 
eligible employeesa are measured incentivized 
them through three themes: safety and 
sustainability (30%); operational performance 
(15%); and financial performance (55%). For 2025 
our sustainability measure was linked to our 
operated carbon emissions. 

This measure covers Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
based on our net zero operations« aim. Our 
2023-25 long-term incentive plan scorecard was 
linked to emissions reductions against our 2019 
baseline (15%).

a The number of employees eligible for a cash bonus in 2025 was around 43,500.

21

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

For 2026 progress towards our aim to achieve 
net zero operations by 2050 or sooner will 
continue to be rewarded through our long-term 
performance share plans rather than the annual 
bonus. For 2026-28 the scorecard measure will 
focus on reducing Scope 1 and 2 operational 
emissions (20%).

Read more in the bp Annual Report 
and Form-20F 2025 on pages 99-101

Health and wellbeing

Our approach to workforce health and wellbeing 
centres on the needs of our people, wherever 
they are located, and whatever role they 
undertake. We provide globally available services 
that can be tailored to meet local needs. All 
employees have access to our global digital 
health and wellbeing hub, Thrive@bp. By working 
with one external provider for our global 
employee assistance programme we can offer 
consistent access to mental health support and 
services globally, with emphasis on preventative 
resources, as well as active support.

Supporting our people through 
organizational change

As part of our transformation programme, we 
offered comprehensive mental health support to 
employees, which has been developed through 
listening forums and employee feedback. 
Recognizing the important role that leaders play, 
we also provided tailored resources to help 
leaders support their teams as well as to look 
after their own mental health.

Our support for all employees included mental 
health training modules on thriving through 
change – including a leader-specific module, 
on-site counselling, wellbeing checks, and advice 
from psychologists, coaches and other 
specialists. We also provided information about 
retirement and redundancy, and senior leaders 
hosted panel conversations during which they 
shared their personal experiences of change 
and offered practical coping strategies.

Regional health hubs 

Our regional health hubs provide dedicated points 
of contact through which employees and their 
families can access available services and get 
expert advice, including public health guidance.  

In 2025 we opened our eighth hub, supporting 
North and Southeast Asia. We plan to launch 
new hubs to serve the Americas and continental 
Europe in 2026.

Creating sustainable workplaces

We are working to make our workplaces more 
sustainable to deliver both health and wellbeing  
and environmental benefits.

In 2025 we achieved new certifications, including 
LEED, Green Star and BREEAM across our office 
network. In Australia, our Perth office achieved 
WELL gold and Green Star certification while one 
of the buildings in our Pune campus in India 
achieved WELL platinum recognition.

bp offices in Singapore and Ghent, Belgium 
acquired renewable energy certificates to cover 
all the energy they used. In offices around the 
world we focused on energy efficiency upgrades, 
water conservation and biodiversity. For example, 
in our Houston campus, US, we implemented 
LED lighting retrofits, smart technology to 
control energy usage, and began a water 
reclamation project. We also ran campaigns to 
promote energy, water and waste awareness 
among employees.

--- PAGE 24 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Human rights in 
our operations 
and supply 
chain

Our human rights policy is underpinned by the 
International Bill of Rights and the International 
Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, 
including its Core Conventions.

We respect the rights of our workforce and 
people living in communities where we operate, 
who are potentially affected by our activities. We 
focus on labour rights, security and human rights, 
the rights of individuals in potentially vulnerable 
groups (including indigenous people’s rights), 
potential impacts on livelihoods, and access to 
water, land and resources.  

Read our human rights policy, LRMS 
principles and our modern slavery and 
human trafficking statement: bp.com/
humanrights

Human rights governance 

At board level, our safety and sustainability 
committee has oversight of matters relating 
to human rights, including labour rights and 
modern slavery risk management. At executive 
management level, our group operational risk 
committee (sustainability) regularly reviews our 
performance and progress in managing the 
operational and supply chain risks associated 
with labour rights and modern slavery. 

Labour rights and modern slavery (LRMS) 
principles

These principles support our commitment to 
respect workers’ rights in line with the ILO Core 
Conventions on Rights at Work, and state our 
expectation that contractors, suppliers and joint 
ventures« do likewise. Our principles relate to 
prevention of abusive or inhumane practices, such 
as child labour, forced labour, trafficking, slavery 
or servitude, and discrimination or harassment. 

Improving working conditions 

We believe decent work – defined as security in 
the workplace, equal treatment, fair income and 
the opportunity for work that is productive with 
prospects for personal development – is not only 
fundamental to a just transition but also a 
potential driver of more productive and resilient 
business performance. It should be underpinned 
by respect for human rights and labour rights. The 
prevention of modern slavery is integral to this. 

In 2025 we reviewed our approach to labour 
rights and modern slavery and identified several 
priority areas for improvement, including 
strengthening capability, improving on-site 
assessments and piloting digital due diligence 
tools. We have started work on these priorities.

Trained bp employees continued on-site 
assessments of prioritized contractors to 
assess their performance against our LRMS 
requirements. Our procurement team also 
launched a pilot with a sustainability ratings 
provider to explore the potential of its digital 
solutions to enhance our pre-contract 
sustainability risk assessments and strengthen 
supplier due diligence. 

We conducted pre-contract evaluations of 
around 700 suppliers, with 70 corrective action 
plans consequently issued. We also evaluated 
285 post-contract self-assessment questionnaires 
completed by current suppliers. Around 75% of 
those assessed were provided with corrective 

action plans. Seven on-site assessments of high-
risk tier 1 suppliers were completed and we are 
currently working with them to address any 
concerns identified.

Human rights assessments

In 2025 we reviewed the way we select bp sites 
and businesses to be independently assessed for 
their conformance with our human rights policy 
and consequently did not commission any 
new assessments. 

Our 2025 target for LRMS 
supplier evaluations

Target description

By 2025 100% of high-risk tier 1 
suppliers evaluated in line with our 
(LRMS) principles and priority findings 
raised with suppliers to be remedieda.

Update

In addressing this target, we focused 
on suppliers to our operated 
businesses that go through our 
integrated procurement platform. 
High-risk suppliers were identified 
using a combination of work activity 
and location. Spend and contract life-
span thresholds were also applied, so 
that it was more likely we would have 
leverage to address any concerns 
identified. 

By the end of 2025 100% of high-risk 
suppliers identified in this way were 
evaluated through evidence-based 
reviews of self-assessment 
questionnaires, either pre-award for 
new suppliers or post-award for 
existing suppliers, with actions raised 
based on their responses. 

a This target was one component of our previous just transition aim which was retired in 2025 and replaced by our new people aim, but work to manage the underlying risk is ongoing.

22

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

Responsible security

In 2025 we continued to implement the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) 
across bp-operated assets.

We enhanced our digital VPSHR impact and risk 
assessment tool by integrating it in our security 
risk assessment process. We used the enhanced 
tool to conduct 380 assessments in 52 countries 
and identified potential risks at 61 locations 
across nine countries. Mitigation strategies 
were developed to address these risks.

We made our VPSHR implementation guide more 
user friendly and developed supporting tools to 
help practitioners educate their workforce and 
embed the VPSHR principles more effectively.

We hosted the Voluntary Principles Initiative 
strategy retreat at the bp office in Houston, Texas. 
And as a participant in the Ipieca Responsible 
Security Task Force, we helped facilitate industry 
collaboration to promote responsible security 
practices and capacity building by 
security providers. 

More than 500 private security personnel and 
almost 500 public security representatives 
received VPSHR training in countries with 
heightened human rights risks, while we 
continued to run internal VPSHR awareness 
campaigns and provide operational guidance to 
support our security teams to help embed the 
VPSHR in day-to-day security practices. 

We report on our VPSHR-related activities 
annually to the Voluntary Principles Initiative.

Read our latest Annual Report on the 
Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights at bp.com/humanrights

--- PAGE 25 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Community engagement 

We engage with local communities and other 
stakeholders through a range of channels, 
including face-to-face meetings with our 
community liaison officers. Where appropriate, 
these interactions provide an opportunity to 
remind communities of the ways they can raise 
concerns or grievances, including those related 
to human rights. 

In 2025 we issued a handbook to help guide social 
performance across our operations. It contains 
proven approaches, tools, practical guidance and 
case studies to support effective community 
engagement, management of social risks, and 
delivery of opportunities through business activities. 
The handbook is a live resource and continues to 
evolve with new insights and materials.

We also released a new set of digital tools 
designed to improve how social performance 
practitioners identify and manage potential 
impacts and risks to local communities. In 2025 
180 practitioners completed bespoke training 
about these tools.  

Read more about our community 
engagement work on page 36

Community complaints in 2025

The total number of complaints in 2025 
decreased compared to 2024. As in previous 
years, most concerns and complaints raised 
by communities related to day-to-day nuisance 
factors linked to our operations, for example 
odour, noise and dust.

Supporting local 
communities

We recognize the importance of a just energy 
transition that respects human rights and delivers 
decent work and quality jobs, and supports the 
livelihoods of local communities. We want to work 
with governments and communities where we 
operate to help improve people’s lives.  

We advocate for governments to take the lead by 
introducing climate and energy policies that 
mitigate negative social impacts while creating 
social benefits.

Alongside our social investment work, we are 
currently defining how to develop targeted just 
transition plans as part of our people aim. We aim 
to identify assets or regions where we can most 
effectively work to address needs and create 
opportunities for people as the energy 
transition progresses.

We are also collaborating with other businesses 
and civil society organizations on just transition 
initiatives.

For example, we are working in partnership with 
the Community Climate Fund run by Business 
in the Community. The Fund brings together 
businesses, the public sector and communities 
to accelerate a just transition. We are supporting 
projects in several locations in the UK including 
in Tees Valley. 

In Aberdeen we are collaborating with the City 
Council, Barclays, Shell UK, and SSE to explore 
how we can collectively support a just energy 
transition for local communities and workers 
in the region. 

23

bp Sustainability Report 2025

Community 
consultation in 
Mauritania 

In February 2025 we held the annual 
Community Consultative Committee 
(CCC) meetings in Ndiago, Mauritania. 
The CCC promotes engagement with 
the local community and municipal 
authorities around our operations in 
Mauritania, encouraging active 
participation in the oversight of 
development projects.

The annual meeting covered 
progress on local social investment 
programmes, ways to develop a 
strategic communication plan for the 
CCC, and measures to enhance the 
transparency and management of bp's 
grievance mechanisms. 

Social investment in local communities

Building on strong foundations provided by 
our ongoing community engagement and well-
established approach to social investment, 
we want to create value for local communities 
through the lifecycle of our projects and assets. 
This may be achieved in different ways, including 
job creation, local sourcing of goods, the taxes we 
pay and social investment. 

In 2025 our total social investment spend was 
$64 million. And since 2020 through the projects 
we have supported, we have directly helped more 
than 500,000 people.

Social investment themes

Our social investment themes reflect both the 
priorities voiced in local communities where we 
operate and ways in which we believe we can 
make a difference. We focus on three 
consistent themes: 

• Building capability for the future by supporting 
the development of skills required to deliver 
energy today and in the future, recognizing the 
contribution we can make to close the skills 
gap, we focus on science, technology, 
engineering and maths (STEM) subjects, 
scholarships and vocational skills.

• Supporting resilient communities through 
activities that support local livelihoods and 
enterprise, drive positive health and wellbeing 
outcomes, and contribute to building 
community resilience.

• Partnering for environmental sustainability 

through activities that aim to restore 
biodiversity or provide access to water 
and lower carbon energy.

--- PAGE 26 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Building capability for the future

Our social investment helps people obtain 
valuable skills, at different stages of their 
education or careers, particularly in vocational 
or STEM subjects. For example: 

• In Spain – Our Castellón refinery offers 

vocational training through a partnership with 
local education authorities. The training 
includes more than 550 hours of classroom 
instruction and hands-on training with our 
operational teams over two years. The course 
focuses on industrial chemistry, laboratory 
analysis and quality control.  

• In the UK – We helped around 13,000 educators 

in 2025, by providing them with free STEM 
resources and professional development 
support through our Energizing Futures 
initiative and collaborative programmes run 
with STEM Learning, the Science Museum 
Group Academy and AFS Intercultural 
Programs.

• In Mexico – bp and Castrol teamed up with 
Fundación Persiste to enable 15 teams of 
students from public technology schools to 
compete in the STEM Racing Global Challenge.

• In Trinidad and Tobago – We supported more 

than 380 students with tertiary-level 
scholarships and grants, and provided funding 
for other educational programmes focused 
on coding and entrepreneurship.

• Worldwide – Our global work experience 

programme helped more than 500 young 
people acquire new skills in 2025. And more 
than 850 young people received scholarships 
to AFS Global STEM Changemakers 
programmes offering immersive STEM 
learning experiences.

Supporting refugee 
employability

In 2023 as part of the Tent Partnership 
for Refugees, we made a shared 
commitment with more than 40 other 
companies to provide jobs and training 
for refugees in Europe. We achieved 
our aim to support 250 refugees in 
their search for employment through 
mentoring and employability events 
run by bp volunteers. We have hired 
more than 120 refugees across our 
European operations since 2023, 
exceeding our aim to hire 70 refugees 
by the end of 2025.

Our partnerships with refugee 
charities RefuAid and Breaking Barriers 
have enabled an additional 180 
refugees in the UK to access English 
language tuition, employability advice 
and financial assistance, helping them 
restart their lives and contribute to the 
communities where they live.

Supporting resilient communities

We know from engagement with local 
communities that they want to improve local 
economic and social resilience. Our work to 
help them do this included the following activities 
in 2025:

• In Azerbaijan – We worked with partners to 

deliver a project supporting entrepreneurship 
and self-employment for vulnerable groups. 
The project provided training based on the 
ILO’s Start and Improve Your Business module 
for 500 participants.  

• In Spain – Our partnership with the Spanish 

Red Cross aiming to address energy poverty 
was extended through 2025 and has now 
helped more than 68,000 people in vulnerable 
communities across Spain since 2022. It 
provides utility bill grants, energy efficient 
appliances and home improvements while also 
promoting energy efficiency and autonomy.

• Worldwide – Throughout 2025 our global 

Health Equity Accelerator helped us identify 
disparities and target people in the greatest 
need of mental and preventative health 
support. Our activities were focused in 
Australia, Azerbaijan, India, Indonesia and 
Oman. Across all these regions we aim to 
increase access to services, improve health 
outcomes and strengthen local capacity, 
particularly for rural and indigenous 
communities. 

Advancing inclusion 
in Oman

In 2025 bp Oman launched the ‘gift to 
the nation’ initiative together with the 
national and local government, to 
support equal opportunities for 
Omanis with disabilities through 
training and accessible education. The 
initiative, which aims to support more 
than 44,000 people across Oman, 
continues our longstanding social 
investment in the country. 

Since 2014 around 250,000 people 
have benefited from programmes such 
as the Sharah programme, which in 
2025 provided professional and life 
skills training for 40 people with 
hearing disabilities, and the Hope 
Programme, which ran around 25 STEM 
workshops in three schools for 
children with special needs.

Image: Sharah programme workshop, Oman

Read more about our social 
investments in Oman at bp.com/
oman

24

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 27 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Partnering for environmental sustainability 

Employee volunteering

In 2025 through our global volunteering 
programme, employees around the world 
contributed around 90,000 hours of their time 
to support local charities and causes. The bp 
Foundation provides matched funding for 
this programme. 

Our social investment helps to support a range of 
community environmental initiatives. In 2025: 

• In the US – Together with Tandem Global and 
local government we support an ongoing 
project to preserve the rare and threatened 
dune and swale ecosystems near our Whiting 
refinery in Indiana. The aim is to do so in ways 
that improve public access and support 
educational and employability initiatives for 
local communities.

• In Senegal – In 2025 bp, on behalf of our 

partners, completed the installation of an 
artificial reef off the coast of the St. Louis 
region. The reef is designed to help enhance 
biodiversity and support sustainable fishing 
practices in local fishing communities. 

Read more about our activities to care for 
our planet on page 27

bp Foundation

The bp Foundation is a charitable 
organization that has supported 
philanthropic activities in more than 60 
countries. The foundation manages two 
global programmes: the employee matching 
fund and humanitarian relief assistance. The 
bp Foundation is a tax-exempt entity that is 
separate from but entirely funded by bp. 

The employee matching fund enables 
eligible bp employees to request matching 
funds annually for their charitable donations, 
volunteer time and individual fundraising for 
qualified non-profit organizations.

The humanitarian relief assistance 
programme provides support for 
humanitarian relief efforts in areas where bp 
operates. In 2025 it included donations to 
assist with wildfire response in California as 
well as flood responses in Texas, Indiana and 
Washington in the US, and Indonesia. 

25

bp Sustainability Report 2025

Image: bp employees taking part in a volunteering day, UK

--- PAGE 28 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Caring for 
our planet

In this section

Our planet aims

Biodiversity

Water

Circularity and waste

Air emissions

27

27

30

32

33

Image: Mangrove restoration project in Papua Barat province, 
Indonesia

26

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 29 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our planet aims

Our planet aims are focused on two areas: 

Biodiversity

Water

Our aim is to support biodiversity where 
we operatea, by:

Our aim is to reduce our net freshwater use in 
stressed catchments where we operate, by:

• Aiming to achieve net positive impact (NPI) 

• Being more efficient with freshwater use 

on all new in-scopeb projects.

in our operations.

• Implementing biodiversity enhancement 

plans at our major operating sites.

• Collaborating with others to replenish 
freshwater in stressedc catchments.

• Collaborating with others to support 

selected biodiversity restoration projects.

We anticipate that by 2028 our freshwater 
withdrawal in these catchments will be 
covered by freshwater management plans.

Environmental policies and practices

bp environmental policy

We understand international concern regarding 
the global decline in biodiversity and recognize 
that our businesses can have impacts and 
dependencies on nature. We also recognize the 
intrinsic link between the need for global action 
on biodiversity and climate change. 

Our focus on freshwater management reflects 
the fact that water is a vital resource and its use 
can have an impact on the communities and 
catchments where we are present. 

Our environmental policy is established through 
our code of conduct, in particular the sections on 
‘safety and sustainability’ and ‘our responsibility 
and how we speak up’. The policy is supported by 
relevant aspects of our commitment to health, 
safety, security and environmental performance, 
our sustainability frame, our biodiversity position 
and our internal group requirements and guidance, 
including those that form part of our Operating 
Management System (OMS).

bp.com/environmentalpolicy

Biodiversity and protected areas

Our biodiversity position commits us to not 
operate any new oil or gas exploration or 
production activities inside natural or cultural 
UNESCO World Heritage sites, or in Strict Nature 
Reserves and Wilderness Areas as listed on 
1 January 2025 in the World Database of 
Protected Areas and defined by the International 
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). We 
review this commitment periodically and engage 
with UNESCO and the IUCN. In our protected 
areas update, we report the number and overlap 
of our major operating sites in or near protected 
areas and key biodiversity areas.

Through our environmental practices, we require 
projects that are located in or could affect an 
international protected area from their planned 
activities, to identify and assess the risks involved 
and put in place any mitigation measures 
necessary to avoid and reduce project impacts. 
To support this, we increasingly use technological 
solutions – such as remote sensing, eDNA 
analysis and geospatial tools. In 2025 there 
were no new projects or project activities in 
or affecting an international protected area. 

bp.com/biodiversityposition

bp.com/protectedareas

Biodiversity

We support the need for international action to 
address the decline in biodiversity and welcome 
the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity 
Framework of 2022. For more than 20 years we 
have integrated biodiversity into our practices and 
decision making and our biodiversity position and 
the actions we take demonstrate our contribution 
towards the Framework’s goals and targets. 

Net positive impact in our projects

Since 2022 we have made consistent progress in 
applying our NPI methodology for use on new in-
scope projects. At an early stage of development, 
projects are reviewed against specific applicability 
criteria (for example, scale of impact) to assess 
what action we need to take. Based on these 
criteria, if we think there could be significant 
impacts on biodiversity, before any planned or 
possible mitigations are taken into account, an NPI 
plan is required. By the end of 2025 six projects 
were either implementing or developing NPI plans.

For example, the Northern Endurance Partnership 
in the UK has developed a biodiversity action plan 
using our methodology and it intends to invest in 
marine biodiversity enhancement projects to 
support harbour porpoises. In Azerbaijan, the bp 
Karabagh project is actively working with the 
relevant authorities to mitigate impacts on 
protected gazelles from a planned onshore 
fabrication yard. 

a At our new in-scope bp-operated projects and major operating sites.

b New bp-operated in-scope projects where planned activities have the potential for significant direct impacts on biodiversity are required to develop NPI action plans for those activities.

c The threshold bp uses for stress is based on a water stress level of ‘high’ or above, as defined by the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. bp determines areas of water stress using either the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas or using site-specific local data sources.

27

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 30 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

The project’s success was built on a combination of 
scientific expertise, institutional capacity building 
and community engagement. In addition to its 
restorative benefits, it has provided a useful frame 
for future post-fire restoration work in Türkiye.

We plan to provide funding for work to start on 
two new biodiversity restoration projects in 2026: 

• Mangrove restoration with IPB University.

• Mangrove and seagrass restoration in Egypt.

Biodiversity enhancement at our 
major operating sites

We aim to implement BEPs at our major operating 
sites, prioritizing those located in biodiversity-
sensitive areas. 

At the end of 2025 all our major operating sites 
in these areas had developed or started to 
implement BEPs in line with our 2025 target. 
These operations are Cherry Point (US), Tangguh 
LNG (Indonesia), Greater Tortue Ahmeyim 
(Mauritania and Senegal) and our operations in 
Trinidad and Tobago, and Azerbaijan, Georgia 
and Türkiye (AGT).

Biodiversity restoration

Since 2022 we have provided funding for eight 
biodiversity restoration projects, located in
the UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Brazil, Georgia, 
Azerbaijan, Türkiye and the US. We have also run 
restoration feasibility studies in India and Georgia. 

Shrubland restoration in Türkiye

In Türkiye, we funded a forest and maquis 
shrubland restoration project launched after 
extreme fires across the country in 2021. The 
project was completed in 2025. It was the first 
initiative in Türkiye to set and implement a 
science-based model for post-fire ecosystem 
restoration with a focus on biodiversity. 

Led by the Nature Conservation Centre in 
partnership with the General Directorate of 
Forestry, in four years the project has helped 
restore more than 22,000 hectares of habitats, 
developed restoration plans for 10 species and 
run more than 15 workshops on post-fire 
ecosystem restoration. 

A biodiversity enhancement plan in action

In 2025 our team in Indonesia completed and 
signed off the local biodiversity enhancement 
plan (BEP) – a live document to be reviewed 
regularly – which sets out activities and 
projects for the next three years. One of 
the long-term projects is the ongoing 
rehabilitation of nearly 7,000 hectares of 
forests in the provinces of Papua Barat 
and Papua Barat Daya.

This project, mandated by the Ministry of 
Forestry as a pre-condition of the land release 
for our Tangguh LNG plant, is twice the size 
of the initial land release area. It is being 
implemented in three phases, each with four 
stages – preparation and community 
engagement, planting, maintenance and 
evaluation – after which, rehabilitated land 
is returned to the government. 

Image:  Mangrove restoration project in Papua 
Barat province, Indonesia

Phase one, which was completed in 2023, 
covered 1,320 hectares, with around 1.4 million 
trees planted, including 1.1 million mangroves. 
The economic contribution to the local 
community for this phase of the project 
amounted to around $2 million in employment, 
logistics and procurement opportunities.

The second phase is currently in its 
maintenance stage, with around 1.7 million 
trees planted across 1,900 hectares. A 
feasibility study was undertaken in 2025 to 
identify new areas for planting across some 
3,000 hectares during the project’s third phase. 
This project exemplifies what we aspire to 
achieve through our BEPs, and other bp sites 
are using it as a reference for good practice. 

28 bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 31 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our 2025 targets for biodiversity

In 2020 we set three targets for 2025 
under our biodiversity aim. 

Target description

• All new in-scope bp projects have 
NPI plans in place prior to final 
project approval. 

• 100% of major operating sites (MOS) 
in sensitive areas have developed or 
started to implement biodiversity 
enhancement plans.

• Five biodiversity restoration projects 

supported to deliver measurable 
benefits for biodiversity and people.

Update 

• All in-scope projects are in the 

process of developing NPI action 
plans: currently six in-scope projects 
are implementing NPI.

• Five MOS – AGT, Cherry Point, 

Tangguh, Mauritania and Senegal, 
and Trinidad and Tobago – have 
developed or started to implement 
biodiversity enhancement plans.

• Eight biodiversity restoration 

projects have been funded to date, 
with two new projects planned 
in 2026.

International policy and 
external engagement

We monitor international and national policies, 
as well as the development of other voluntary 
frameworks and initiatives, to help inform our 
long-term plans and actions.

We also track the development of metrics 
and targets, including the work of the Nature 
Positive Initiative and the Science Based Targets 
Network for Nature. We plan to continue to 
review our approach to biodiversity in the 
context of this work and of other initiatives 
and disclosure requirements.

As a member of the Taskforce on Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) Forum, we are 
working to understand evolving expectations 
regarding nature-related risks and 
transition plans.

In 2025 we continued our involvement in several 
cross-industry groups, to learn from other 
organizations and to promote the need for 
collective action. We did so through our:

• Participation in the joint International 

Association of Oil & Gas Producers/Ipieca 
Biodiversity & Ecosystem Services Working 
Group and the UN Environment Programme 
World Conservation Monitoring Centre 
Proteus Partnership.

• Participation in the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development’s Nature Positive 
working group.

• Membership of the UK Business & Biodiversity 
Forum – which together with the International 
Chamber of Commerce UK and the Institute of 
Sustainability and Environmental Professionals 
supports businesses in integrating biodiversity 
into their activities.

29

bp Sustainability Report 2025

Nature-based solutions

Nature-based solutions (NbS) are increasingly 
being used to address societal challenges, such 
as water management, coastal erosion and the 
impact of adverse weather events. They can also 
provide ecological, social, and economic co-
benefits, including natural climate solutions (NCS) 
that reduce or remove greenhouse gas emissions 
through nature conservation, restoration or 
improved land management. 

In 2025 we began delivering our NbS action plan. 
It focuses on ways to embed nature into our 
engineering designs for new projects and existing 
operations. We published an NbS catalogue to 
share best practice on embedding NbS into 
projects and operations. We also continued our 
efforts to raise internal awareness and improve 
understanding of NbS and potential applications. 
For example, we quantified and shared 
information on the benefits achieved through 
carbon capture and sequestration in grasslands 
restoration projects in Montana, US.

Image: Cherry Point refinery, Washington, US

--- PAGE 32 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Water 

Our progress in 2025

To understand our water-related challenges, we 
review water impacts, risks and opportunities at 
our operating sites. These reviews consider the 
quantity and quality of water used as well as any 
applicable regulatory requirements.

Our primary focus has been on implementing 
efficiency and replenishment projects in line with 
our 2025 water target. We also started to embed 
our water aim to reduce net freshwater use in 
stressed water catchmentsa where we operate, 
with the introduction of a new water 
management guide.

Our water consumption in 2025

Since 2020 we have reduced freshwater 
withdrawals (excluding once through cooling 
water) by 15% and freshwater consumption by 
15% against the baselineb. Reductions in 2025 
were the result of operational water efficiencies 
described below, offset by some increase in 
development operations in bpx energy, 
Haynesville, US.

At our major operating sites, 13% (2024 11%) of our 
total freshwater withdrawals and 22% (2024 20%) 
of freshwater consumption, were from regions 
with high or extremely high water stress in 2025. 

We routinely monitor our operational wastewater 
quality. Our wastewater treatment concentrations 
increased slightly owing to lower discharge 
volumes at our refineries and terminals. The 
average chemical oxygen demand concentration 
of the treated water discharged from these 
bp-operated treatment facilities was 42mg/L.

bp.com/ESGdata

Our 2025 water target

Target description

To be 20% towards water positive 
by 2025c. 

Update

In 2025 we achieved 26% towards water 
positive, primarily with contributions 
from catchment collaboration projects 
(10.95Mm³) and operational water 
efficiency initiatives (4.48Mm³). 

In measuring how we performed 
against this target, we excluded 
volumes associated with both new 
business acquisitions and divestments. 
We had timing challenges to fully 
assess, influence and incorporate the 
water usage of recent acquisitions 
(most notably bp bioenergy in 2024) 
within the target timeframe. 
Consequently, for consistency, we also 
excluded volumes associated with 
divestments of businesses (most 
notably Toledo refinery).

Improving water efficiency in 2025

At Lingen refinery, Germany, we added a mobile 
wastewater treatment unit to an existing water 
recycling system. This enables the refinery to  
reuse wastewater in its industrial processes. 
As a result, we saved approximately 0.35Mm3 
of freshwater in 2025. At Whiting, a condensate 
recycling project resulted in a 1.03Mm3 per year 
reduction in freshwater withdrawals.

At our bpx energy Eagle Ford facilities in the US, 
we have invested in two more water wells and a 
holding pond. These enable us to use brackish 
water (non-freshwater with higher salinity) 
instead of freshwater in our development 
operations. Nearly 1Mm3 of brackish water from 
these wells was used in 2025 with an additional 
2.1Mm3 sourced from existing brackish water 
wells. Using brackish water reduces the need to 
source freshwater internally and from third-party 
suppliers, and the storage pond reduces 
transport costs. Together, these changes helped 
us reduce freshwater use and save around 
$4 million in 2025.

Water management 
in India

A Castrol manufacturing depot located 
in Silvassa, India, a region facing high 
water stress, is taking action to support 
sustainable water management. 

Recognizing the need to reduce its 
dependency on freshwater, the depot 
initiated a comprehensive water 
stewardship programme, which started 
with a detailed assessment to identify 
ways of becoming more water efficient.

From 2018-24 the plant achieved a 69% 
reduction in freshwater use, thanks to 
several key actions, including the 
installation of digital water meters, 
reuse of treated wastewater for 
on-site irrigation, installation of a 
rooftop rainwater harvesting system, 
and awareness campaigns to 
engage employees.

The Castrol depot also commissioned 
research into the feasibility of 
groundwater recharge – the natural or 
artificial process where water moves 
downward from surface water to 
replenish underground aquifers. As 
a result, bp and United Way Mumbai 
launched a project that is intended 
to allow considerable volumes of 
freshwater to be recharged every year. 

a The threshold bp uses for stress is based on a water stress level of ‘high’ or above, as defined by the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. bp determines areas of water stress using either the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas or using site-specific local data sources.

b The 2020 baseline for freshwater withdrawal is 96.4 million m3 per year and for freshwater consumption is 55.9 million m3 per year.

c We reset our water aim in February 2025 and, while we are still focused on reducing our freshwater use in stressed catchments, we have retired our aim to be water positive.

30 bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 33 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Egypt
• In Egypt’s West Nile Delta, two innovative 

stormwater projects, in Rashid and in Idku, are 
capturing rainwater to irrigate crops, reduce 
flooding hazards, and boost local livelihoods. 
During a single year, the two projects delivered 
a verified annual reuse volume of around 
115,000m3. These projects are also helping 
to ease water scarcity, and create jobs. These 
projects are fully funded by bp and run in 
partnership with local non-governmental 
organizations and authorities.

Mauritania
• The Ndiago Water Supply Project in Mauritania, 
which was completed in May 2024, has brought 
clean, reliable drinking water to more than 
3,600 people living in river communities – 
thanks to the use of solar-powered pumps, 
expanded piping, and a water tower. In 2025 
it delivered approximately 18,220m3 of clean 
water along with associated health and 
economic benefits.

Collaborating to replenish freshwater

• In 2025 we announced funding for a new water 

To help achieve our 2025 water target we 
invested in a portfolio of replenishment projects. 
We engaged the services of LimnoTech to assess 
the impact of our collaborations to replenish 
water using volumetric water benefits accounting 
methods published by the World Resources 
Institute (WRI) in 2019. We have 13 collaborative 
projects completed or nearing completion 
in Azerbaijan, India, Egypt and Mauritania.

Azerbaijan
• A project run by the public union UMID and 

supported by bp, continued to deliver benefits 
for Azerbaijani communities in 2025, with clean 
water supplied to a further six villages, 
including three new irrigation systems, 
which provided 1.17Mm3 of water in 2025.  

• The PULS-R project in the Tovuz region 

delivered more than 1.85Mm3 of clean water 
to rural communities in 2025, thanks to the 
renovation of two traditional kahriz water 
supply systems, which were also connected 
to local irrigation systems. Five water fountains 
were also installed. The renovated systems are 
being operated and maintained by local people 
following specialist training.

• Through collaboration with local authorities 
and the regional development public union 
(RIIB), bp has contributed to improving water 
management in the Goychay District. Thanks 
to advanced irrigation systems and new water 
storage facilities the project delivered more 
than 1.04Mm3 of clean water to irrigate 85 
hectares of land planted with fruit trees 
provided by the government, early in 2025. 
Alongside this new supply, local farmers are 
being trained to use water more efficiently.

supply system, including a reservoir and 
filtration facility, to serve several hundred 
households in the Avaran municipality. When 
completed, the project will provide around 
2100m3 of clean water for domestic use and 
irrigation, benefiting a community that 
currently faces chronic water shortages. 

India
• Several projects are ongoing in Gujarat, 

including three new ones launched in 2025. 
Together they will provide drinking water to 
around 100 communities. We have already 
helped to provide clean water for 60 villages 
since 2024, with 6.72Mm3 of clean water 
provided in 2025 alone. Key to the success 
of these projects is the use of innovative 
technology, community training and strong 
local partnerships to improve public health 
and promote sustainable practices.

• A project in Silvassa, led by bp and United Way 
Mumbai, is revitalizing local agriculture and 
communities. In 2025 three check dams and 
four infiltration shafts built to conserve water 
and boost drought resilience, helped save 
approximately 35,500m3 of water. This project 
combines scientific planning, community 
engagement and sustainable farming. In the 
long term it can help improve food security, 
biodiversity and climate resilience. Read more 
about our work in the Silvassa region in the 
case study on page 30.

Image: Development of a reservoir and filtration facility 
in Avaran, Azerbaijan

Image: Check dam and recharge well in Silvassa, India

31

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 34 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Circularity 
and waste

We look for ways to operate more efficiently, 
in line with our circularity framework, which we 
embedded in our OMS in 2024. The framework 
sets out three principles: eliminate waste and 
pollution, circulate products and materials, and 
regenerate nature. 

In 2025 several of our businesses launched or 
continued projects aimed at improving circularity 
and we also supported some non-operated joint 
ventures« (NOJVs) and customers in their efforts. 

Circularity in 2025 

Oil and gas

In our Azerbaijan, Georgia and Türkiye (AGT) 
region we have developed an innovative way 
of safely reusing drilling fluids by using smart 
technology to cut the time required to assess 
suitability for reuse, from over an hour to just 15 
minutes. Using this approach, we have recycled 
20,000 barrels of drilling fluids since 2023, 
achieved cost savings of around $3 million 
and reduced the time vessels wait in dock 
while fluids are being tested.  

We believe this approach can be scaled up for 
wider use across our operations and have shared 
details of what was done in AGT as an example of 
good practice. 

Biofuels

• Archaea Energy, the largest renewable natural 

gas (RNG)« producer in the US, started up eight 
new landfill plants in 2025. Since 2023 Archaea 
has added 19 landfill plants and total capacity 
of 18 million mmBtu per year.

• bp bioenergy, Brazil, continued to reuse all its 

major industrial residues as organic agricultural 
inputs. This reduced the amounts of chemical 
fertilizers used in our sugarcane fields. The 
business also provided 1.4TWh of renewable 
energy from bagasse. 

• Our Lingen refinery in Germany completed a 
co-processing trial, using cashew nutshell 
liquid as a feedstock to create a lower lifecycle 
carbon diesel replacement for trucks and 
fleets.

NOJVs and partners
• Our NOJV, High Plains Processing, started to 
commission a seed-crush facility in South 
Dakota that will have the capacity to process  
soybeans, sunflower seeds and canola into 
around 5,500 barrels of biofeedstock a day. 
We are also supporting our partner, Green Era, 
with its work to turn a vacant site in Chicago 
into a $35 million renewable energy facility 
and urban farming campus. bp trading already 
purchases and resells RNG derived from 
Green Era’s biodigestor. 

Retail and convenience 

• In Germany, bp and Aral collaborated with Too 
Good to Go to save around 780 tonnes of food.

• In the US, Thorntons and ampm donated 

around 87,000 kilograms of surplus food to  
non-profit organizations, such as Feeding 
America, Kentucky Harvest and Last Mile 
Food Rescue.

• In New Zealand, through our partnership with 
KiwiHarvest, 55,000 kilograms of food were 
distributed to people in need from more than 
100 bp Connect sites during 2025. 

• In Australia, our work with OzHarvest helped 
redirect 50,000 kilograms of surplus food to 
communities facing food insecurity. 

Castrol

• Castrol’s MORECircular offer continued 

growing in 2025. Launched in 2024 in the US 
with our partner Safety-Kleen, it diverts used 
oil to re-refining and offers customers 
products made using re-refined base oils 
(RRBO).  Castrol has expanded this offer and 
is now running a similar programme in Türkiye 
and pilots in the UK and Germany. In 2025 
around 3 million litres of used oil were sent 
for re-refining through the programme. 

• Castrol’s research into RRBO has enabled a 

major car manufacturer to use Castrol EDGE 
containing 50% RRBO as the ‘factory fill’ engine 
oil for vehicles at its manufacturing plants. This 
is the first factory-fill product containing RRBO 
sold by Castrol.

Our 2025 reusable, recyclable or 
biodegradable packaging target

Target description

All bp-owned food brand packaging in 
Europe to be reusable, recyclable or 
biodegradable by 2025. 

Update

We made progress towards this target 
and, by the end of 2025, over half of  
in-scope packaging was recyclable. 
For example, in some markets we now 
offer recyclable cups (with less than 
5% polyethylene content). We have 
also tested the use of paper cup lids 
in the UK and Germany. We aim to 
continue collaborating with our 
suppliers to explore ways of using 
more paper-based food packaging.

Image: bp bioenergy, Brazil

32

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 35 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Waste in 2025

We adopt a lifecycle approach to waste 
management, to avoid and reduce waste 
from our operations and to reuse materials.
In 2025 the increased production and focus 
on operations resulted in slightly increased 
overall waste generation.

We disposed of 323kt of hazardous and non-
hazardous waste from our operated businesses in 
2025, a 17% increase from 2024 (2024 276kt) and 
we recycled or recovered 213kt of waste, a 14% 
decrease from 2024 (2024 247kt). Our recycling 
and recovery ratea was 40%.

Waste disposed (kt)

Waste recycled or recovered (kt)

400

300

200

100

0

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

Air emissions

We monitor our air emissions – including sulphur 
oxides, nitrogen oxides and non-methane 
hydrocarbons – and where possible, put 
measures in place to reduce the potential impact 
of our operational activities on local communities 
and the environment. In 2025 our total air 
emissions were flat compared to 2024. 

Air emissions by substance (kt)

100

50

10

10

10

9

9

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

0

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

Hazardous

Non-hazardous

Hazardous

Non-hazardous

Find more environmental and social data: 
bp.com/ESGdata

Nitrogen oxides group

Sulphur oxides group

Non-methane hydrocarbons group

Read more about operational greenhouse 
gas emissions reductions on page 12

a Recycling and recovery rate calculated as: (quantity of waste (or exempted waste) sent for recycling or recovery)/(total quantity of waste managed). Excludes Drilling, Completion, Wells and Intervention (DCWI) chemicals, fluids and drill cuttings discarded from our DCWI 

operations as well as waste from remediation sites. 

33

bp Sustainability Report 2025

59768888821951661281591324339394245423938282697778910593176228149172230

--- PAGE 36 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Engaging 
stakeholders

Engaging constructively with our 
stakeholders helps us deliver our 
strategy and sustainability aims. 
We engage with them in various 
ways, from local meetings to 
global partnerships.

In this section

Engaging with our stakeholders in 2025

35

Image: Employee at our office in Houston, US

34

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 37 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Engaging 
with our 
stakeholders 
in 2025

Our main stakeholder groups are 
employees, investors, customers, 
governments and regulators, 
partners and suppliers. We engage 
for many reasons, as these 
examples show.

Investors

It is important that our shareholders, 
potential investors and lenders 
understand our strategy and our 
progress. It is equally important for us 
to understand their views of bp and the 
energy sector. We use insights from 
investor engagements to inform our 
communications to financial markets. 

Our investor relations team co-ordinates 
investor events and direct engagement 
with equity investors. Our treasury team 
co-ordinates engagement with lenders 
and debt investors.

Employees

93,700

employees worldwide

Our employees play a critical role in delivering 
our strategy and in maintaining safe and reliable 
operations. We engage with them through many 
channels to understand their experiences and 
feedback, including annual and continuous 
listening through our Pulse surveys, regular 
dialogue with leaders, and targeted 
communications such as town halls, webcasts 
and dedicated engagement sessions.

Building safer, stronger teams – In 2025 
we continued to prioritize safety and worked 
to improve our safety culture through 
communications campaigns, information 
sharing, and training. 

For example, we hosted a global safety seminar 
to strengthen learning and engagement, bringing 
together thousands of employees to address 
wellbeing, fatigue and incident prevention. Senior 
leaders and bp safety experts reinforced the 
importance of learning from every incident and 
using tools such as our Learning and Engagement 
System (LENS) to embed lessons into 
daily practice.

We also supported Psychological Safety Week, a 
cross-industry initiative to promote psychological 
safety and help organizations create safer, more 
effective workplaces. During this week sessions 
focused on how to create psychologically safe 
environments and on topics such as speaking 
up and learning from mistakes. We also provided 
resources and sessions on grow@bp, our online 
learning platform. 

Healthy Minds programme – Our bespoke mental 
health education programme, Healthy Minds, 
provides on-demand e-learning modules for 
leaders and colleagues. Since its launch in 2024 
more than 14,000 modules have been completed 
and more than 75% of our group leaders have 
engaged with the programme. 

Feedback from participants shows that Healthy 
Minds gives leaders the confidence to spot 
someone who may be struggling with their 
mental health, conduct mental health and 
wellbeing conversations, and guide colleagues 
to bp’s support resources.

We have completed the design of our new 
training e-modules for mental wellbeing 
champions, which will provide guidance for 
employees who can provide support to peers.

Read more about employee health and 
wellbeing, and developing our people on 
page 21

Customers

Engaging with customers helps us understand 
how we can add value for them. Our engagement 
with retail customers, through our convenience 
& mobility and retail businesses, ranges from 
a focus on product preferences to diversity, 
accessibility and safety considerations. 

Responding to our customers’ changing needs –
In 2025 we worked to meet customer demand 
by expanding access to lower carbon mobility 
across key markets. For example, we opened new 
ultra-fast charging« hubs at major US airports. 
In Germany, Aral began supplying hydrotreated 
vegetable oil at 40 fuel stations to give truck 
drivers an alternative to diesel. Aral pulse has 
also installed high-powered chargers for electric 
trucks at motorway service stations and has 
charged more than five million EV vehicles 
since the business launched in 2020. 

Improving road safety in Romania – In 2025 
Castrol Romania supported the launch of a road 
safety tour, which was led by Titi Aur Academy 
SRL Romania – one of the leading driving schools 
in Romania and a Castrol partner for five years. 
The tour visited 10 major cities and shared 
information developed with input from Castrol 
and other sponsors. It is designed for drivers 
aged 18-22 who have recently obtained a driving 
licence. Free of charge, participants learn how to 
avoid road hazards and improve their road 
awareness and decision making. 

35

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 38 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Government and regulators

$8.3bn

corporate income and production tax paid

Public policy evolves in response to many 
political and economic drivers, including energy 
security and affordability. We monitor policy to 
understand its potential impact on our strategy, 
sustainability aims, and businesses.

We regularly advocate or comment on policy 
that is relevant to bp, with local, national and 
regional governments, regulators and legislators. 
We also engage with them to build constructive 
relationships and support the development of 
national energy projects, including those in 
which we have an interest. 

The following examples highlight our advocacy 
activities in support of our sustainability aims. 
We focused on various aspects in 2025, including 
bioenergy, hydrogen and carbon pricing.

We continue to advocate in many other areas 
connected to bp’s strategy. These are not generally 
covered in this report. Other examples of our 
advocacy can be found online.

bp.com/advocacyactivities

In the US – At federal level, we partnered with 
industry groups and advocated directly with 
Congressional and administration officials to 
help secure favourable provisions in the recently 
enacted tax law for the clean fuel production 
tax credit (45Z) for renewable natural gas«.

At state level, we supported carbon pricing 
initiatives in California and Washington State. 

In India – We supported the development of the 
bioenergy standard and engaged with the Bureau 
of Indian Standards to revise compressed biogas 
(CBG) specification. This revision helps to level the 
playing field between CBG and compressed 
natural gas, encouraging its use as an 
automotive fuel. 

In Germany – We worked with the Federal 
Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action 
to secure EU funding for a green hydrogen« 
project at Lingen refinery. This is our largest 
investment project in Germany and has the 
potential to become a cornerstone of the 
country’s hydrogen economy. 

In the UK – In relation to UK decommissioning 
policy, we highlighted the potential 
environmental benefits to coral reefs gained by 
leaving North Sea infrastructure in situ after use.

In the EU – We advocated for policies that 
support renewable transport fuels. For example, 
together with partners across the renewable 
fuels value chain, we called on the European 
Commission to adopt pragmatic certification 
rules for additional ‘Renewable Energy Directive 
(RED) Annex IX’ feedstocks. 

The directive has implications for our refining, 
retail and bioenergy businesses in Europe, so
we took part in the consultation process for the 
implementation of RED III in Germany and Spain, 
and in the Netherlands, where we also have 
refining operations. 

In Australia – We responded to the Economics 
and Industry Standing Committee’s inquiry 
into the role of Western Australia in global 
decarbonization, highlighting the importance 
of energy security, clear policy signals and 
regulatory certainty to support investment and 
infrastructure in the region. We also highlighted 
the key role of LNG, carbon capture and storage, 
low carbon transport fuels and hydrogen.

Significant policy positions

Our most significant public policy positions are 
subject to endorsement through our policy 
steering committees, comprising representatives 
from businesses, regions and functions. We 
publish a summary of these positions on bp.com.

Local communities

$64m

social investment spend

We aim to work in ways that benefit local 
communities and help us build respectful, 
transparent relationships with them.

Our community engagement ranges from one-
to-one conversations conducted by dedicated 
community liaison officers to large public 
consultations. We also provide information about 
our activities and invite people to share their 
feedback through accessible channels, including 
confidential speak up mechanisms.

Engaging our neighbours – At our Whiting refinery 
in Indiana, US, we took action to build trust among 
our neighbours and help them understand more 
about our operations. In 2025 at a meeting of 
the refinery’s Community Engagement Council,
we invited people from the local community to 
tour the refinery and ask questions about its 
operations. We also launched a Facebook page 
to keep the local community updated on our 
activities and future engagement work. 

We have strengthened co-ordination with 
regional law enforcement and emergency 
management leaders to deliver timely, purposeful 
information to the community during response 
activities. In 2025 bp met with Lake County 
Emergency Management Agency and local law 
enforcement for a community notification 
tabletop exercise. The exercise identified gaps 
in the notification process and informed a crisis 
communications response plan.

36

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 39 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Community resilience in Indonesia – In the Tanah 
Merah Baru and Onar areas, close to our Tangguh 
LNG plant, bp Indonesia has worked with local 
authorities to engage local people from two 
districts in discussions and planning for a 
mangrove rehabilitation project. Following five 
focus groups and a feasibility study, village 
teams were formed to plant around one hectare 
of mangrove saplings in each district. This 
collaboration supports the restoration of coastal 
ecosystems and helps to build resilience in 
local communities.

Read more about our community 
engagement on page 23

Partners and suppliers

$142.5bn

in payments to suppliers for goods and services

Supply chain partners

We engage with suppliers and partners to try to 
improve sustainability in our supply chain and 
also help some of our suppliers progress towards 
their own relevant goals.

Supplier sustainability summit – Our second 
supplier sustainability summit in June 2025 
brought together around 400 key suppliers 
who operate across 37 countries, to share best 
practices and insights on supplier collaboration 
on low carbon projects, to strengthen 
sustainability performance. 

Collaborating with a supplier to improve 
circularity – We worked closely with one of our 
suppliers to recover and reuse more than 200 
conductor joints in the Azeri, Chirag and 
Deepwater portion of the Gunashli (ACG) field, 
Azerbaijan in 2025. This resulted in savings in 
excess of $2 million and enhanced circularity. 
The supplier’s expertise was key to the success 
of this project. 

Non-operated joint ventures«

Our NOJV solutions team provides technical 
solutions and guidance for our NOJV relationship 
managers. For example, they provide guidance 
on how to engage partners on sustainability. 
Our direct engagement with our NOJV partners 
includes seminars, workshops and support for 
target setting.

Biodiversity forum – In March 2025 an NOJV 
operators’ biodiversity forum brought together 
sustainability practitioners from 12 NOJVs and 
representatives from the UN Environment 
Programme World Conservation Monitoring 
Centre under the Proteus Partnership, to share 
best practice. 

Trade associations and industry initiatives 

Our participation in trade associations and 
industry initiatives allows us to share knowledge 
and fosters collaboration on a wide range of 
topics, including policy development, good 
practice and standards.

We made changes to the way we review our trade 
association memberships in 2025. We reviewed 
those with membership fees of $100,000 or more 
to identify any significant misalignments or lack 
of influence on relevant policy between the 
association reviewed and bp.

bp.com/tradeassociations

Working with bioenergy associations in Brazil – 
Brazil’s national bioenergy and emissions reduction 
policy, RenovaBio, launched in 2017. Since then, our 
bioenergy business has worked with associations in 
Brazil including UNICA to help ensure the policy is fit 
for purpose. For example, we have highlighted 
regulatory improvements to strengthen governance 
and compliance.

Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) – We 
continued our support for OGCI and its ambition 
to achieve ‘near-zero’ methane emissions and 
zero routine flaring by 2030. In 2025 we 
contributed to the development of practical 
tools, including the Methane Library and a 
Satellite Methane Detection Response Playbook. 
We demonstrated our support for the OGCI 
through direct action too – continuing to deploy 
site-level methane measurement technology 
and improving operational efficiency at our 
upstream« operations.

Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP) –  
Through our memberships of the American 
Petroleum Institute, the US Chamber of 
Commerce and the National Association of 
Manufacturers, we voiced support for the 
preservation of the GHGRP. The US Environmental 
Protection Agency is considering ending the 
GHGRP, which requires reporting from large 
GHG emission sources. 

Oil & Gas Decarbonization 
Charter (OGDC)

Throughout 2025 we continued our 
active engagement with the OGDC, 
focusing on accelerating emissions 
reductions across our sector. We 
submitted performance data to the 
OGDC using the OGCI reporting 
process to improve consistency 
and make data easier to compare. 

We also took part in peer-to-peer 
exchanges and training initiatives – 
particularly those focused on 
methane and flaring reduction. Our 
collaboration with SOCAR, the state 
oil company of Azerbaijan, was 
highlighted as an example of impactful 
peer-to-peer engagement to drive 
methane mitigation in the Turning 
Pledges Into Progress report.

See our progress and actions on methane 
emissions on page 14

37

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 40 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) 
and civil society

We work with NGOs and civil society 
organizations at the international, national and 
local level, many of which have complementary 
expertise on social and environmental issues. 

Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) – 
We engage with IHRB on best practice and 
emerging areas of focus on human rights and a 
just transition. We support IHRB’s Gulf Sustain 
initiative, which aims to advance worker welfare 
in Gulf Cooperation Council countries. In 2025 
we participated in the Transition Tensions 
roundtable, where businesses and civil society 
groups discussed how businesses are responding 
to climate, social and political tensions. 

Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) – Working 
together with EDF, we have progressed advanced 
methane detection technologies, including work 
through the MethaneSAT collaboration and 
targeted measurement projects. The collaboration 
has also strengthened emissions management at 
NOJVs by developing model governance tools, 
engaging partners across key regions, and 
supporting wider adoption of OGMP 2.0.

Academia

Engagement with our academic partners 
provides fresh perspectives and evidence-based 
insights into technologies, including those that 
may contribute to the energy transition. We 
have a global network of strategic university 
partners and also engage with academia to 
recruit new talent into bp and to deliver our 
apprenticeship programmes.

Cardiff University and the University of 
Manchester – Together with Johnson Matthey, we 
are working with researchers at both universities 
to advance catalyst technologies and chemical 
processes that support the transition to net 
zero«. In 2025 we extended the Prosperity 
Partnership that we launched with Johnson 
Matthey in 2021 to develop new technologies 
capable of converting carbon dioxide into 
renewable fuels and chemicals. This was co-
funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences 
Research Council. We believe our work with 
these two universities has the potential to 
create sustainable alternatives to fossil-based 
processes, while also building capability and 
skills needed in the energy transition.

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign – 
We are working with the university’s Materials 
Research Laboratory at the Materials Science 
and Engineering department, to research 
potential materials degradation when bp’s 
refining assets are used to produce biofuels 
from sources such as cooking oil. We know the 
unique composition of these biofeedstocks can 
accelerate corrosion of metals and we aim to 
develop strategies to minimize this damage as 
we look to increase the use of renewable 
feedstocks in the future.

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) at Bombay and 
Madras – We launched new collaborations with 
these two leading research centres in 2025. At IIT 
Bombay our joint research will focus on quantum 
computing and AI, corrosion engineering and 
bioenergy. At IIT Madras we have joined the 
Energy Consortium, an industry body that 
supports cutting-edge research in energy 
generation, conversion, storage and distribution.

Working across sectors

We engage with others through 
initiatives or organizations that bring 
together businesses, NGOs, academia, 
think tanks and governments to 
address multiple issues.

Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI) –  
In 2025 SMI introduced a new way of 
working that focuses on tackling 
cross-industry challenges no single 
entity can solve alone. And as a 
founding member of SMI, bp worked  
on multiple projects during the year. 
Two bp employees are on secondment 
to the SMI Secretariat, and some of our 
senior leaders actively engage in the 
SMI programme, particularly in areas 
related to energy.

38 bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 41 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Our 
reporting

In this section

Materiality

About our reporting

Glossary

Deloitte’s limited assurance report

Cautionary statement

Image: Argos platform, Gulf of America, US

40

41

42

44

46

39

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 42 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Materiality

To help inform our sustainability 
report and focus on the issues that 
matter to our stakeholders, we 
conduct materiality assessmentsa.

Our 2025 materiality process

Building on the materiality assessment we 
conducted in 2024, we worked with an external 
agency to help validate the assessment used 
for this sustainability report, considering the 
external landscape and developments relating 
to sustainability and ESG. We also took into 
consideration developments within the company 
in relation to bp’s sustainability frame and aims.

This involved research to identify new and 
emerging ESG topics, including a review of ESG 
reporting frameworks, legislation and industry 
trends. The significance of issues covered in our 
Sustainability Report 2024 was also reviewed.

This process identified no significant changes 
in topics for 2025 compared with 2024. 

Our approach/
Engaging stakeholders

Safety 

pages 4-6

Sustainable supply chain

page 9

Business ethics and 
accountability 

Public policy, lobbying and 
trade associations

pages 6-8

pages 36-37

Getting to net zero«

Climate change and 
the energy transition

page 11

Greenhouse gas emissions –
our operations

pages 12-14

Methane emissions

page 14

Greenhouse gas emissions 
– our products

pages 15-17

Renewable energy

page 17

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Diversity and inclusion

Human rights

Biodiversity and sensitive areas

Circularity 

page 20

page 22

pages 27-29

page 32

Employee attraction, 
retention and development

Just transition

page 23

page 21

Health and wellbeing 

Sustainable livelihoods and 
community engagement

page 21

pages 23-25

Water management 

pages 30-31

a For the bp Sustainability Report 2025, the materiality assessment built on previous sustainability report-related assessments and was for the purposes of this report only.

40 bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 43 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

About our 
reporting

We aim to report on many 
different aspects of bp, including 
joint ventures« where bp is the 
operator. Our aim is to provide 
useful and transparent reporting.

Transparency in our reporting

Our progress in 2025

In 2025 we continued to advocate and share
our views with standard setters, particularly those 
working on the development of UK and 
EU reporting standards.

TCFD disclosures

As we have done previously, for the 2025 financial 
year, we have made climate-related financial 
disclosures that we consider to be consistent 
with all the TCFD Recommendations and 
Recommended Disclosuresa. 

We support the recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD), established by the Financial Stability 
Board to improve the reporting of climate-related 
risks and opportunities. We want to continue to 
work constructively with the IFRS Foundation’s 
International Sustainability Standards Board 
(ISSB) and others as they develop good 
practices and standards for transparent 
climate-related reporting.

bp.com/TCFD

Read more about our climate-related 
financial disclosures in the bp Annual 
Report and Form 20-F 2025 pages 41-54

Climate-related benchmarks 
CA100+« 

In the latest Climate Action 100+ net zero company 
benchmarkb, published October 2025, we were 
assessed to be aligned on four indicators covering 
our ambition, long-term goals, climate governance 
and TCFD disclosures. The benchmark assesses 
decarbonization strategy, capital alignment, 
climate policy support, governance, the just 
transition and reporting. 

CDP
We submit data as part of the CDP climate 
change questionnaire and make a copy available 
on our website. In 2025 we received a score of B 
(2024 B).

SASB Standards

ESG Data

We take the SASB oil and gas exploration and 
production standard into account when making 
disclosures as part of our response to demand 
for non-financial information to help benchmark 
corporate performance.

UN Global Compact

We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact 
and have reinforced our support for the 
10 principles on human rights, labour, 
environment and anti-corruption through 
our purpose and sustainability frame.

Our communication on progress against 
the 10 principles can be found online.

unglobalcompact.org

Ipieca 

Ipieca’s sustainability reporting guidance informs 
the way we report on environmental and 
social issues.

Read more about how we refer to different 
reporting standards and frameworks to guide 
our approach to sustainability reporting. 

bp.com/ourreporting

To help stakeholders analyse our progress on 
sustainability we publish a detailed ESG Datasheet. 

Our sustainability data management system, 
Leap, provides a robust platform for collecting, 
analysing and sharing data about the carbon, 
environmental and social performance of our 
projects and operations.

We also use IRIS, our global application for 
recording, reporting and learning from health 
and safety incidents.

bp.com/ESGdata

Verification and assurance

Our verification methods include reviews of data 
by reporting businesses and subject matter 
experts, second-line and group reviews, along 
with third-line reviews by internal audit.

We ask Deloitte to provide limited external 
assurance for several key sustainability metrics 
to the internationally recognized ISAE 3000 
(Revised) standard. Read the Deloitte assurance 
statement on page 44.

bp.com/basisofreporting

Our reporting centre

You can access our current and past 
reports online.

bp.com/reportingcentre

a We consider our climate-related financial disclosures to be consistent with all of the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures and that they are therefore compliant with UK Listing Rule 6.6.6R(8).

b climateaction100.org/company/bp/

41

bp Sustainability Report 2025

« See the glossary on pages 42-43

--- PAGE 44 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Glossary

Average carbon intensity of sold 
energy products

The rate of GHG emissions per unit of energy 
delivered (in grams CO2e/MJ) estimated in 
respect of sold energy products«. GHG 
emissions are estimated on a lifecycle basis 
covering use, production, and distribution 
of sold energy products.

Biofuels production

Biofuels production is average thousands of 
barrels of biofuel production per day during the 
period covered net to bp. This includes equivalent 
ethanol production, bp bioenergy biopower for 
grid export, refining co-processing and 
standalone hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO).

Biogas supply volumes

Biogas supply volumes is the average thousands 
of barrels of oil equivalent per day of production 
and offtakes during the period covered net to bp.

Capital expenditure

Total cash capital expenditure as stated in the 
group cash flow statement. Capital expenditure 
for the operating segments, gas & low carbon 
energy businesses and customers & products 
businesses is presented on the same basis.

Electric vehicle charge points/EV 
charge points 

Defined as the number of connectors on a 
charging device, operated by either bp or a bp 
joint venture, as adjusted to be reflective of bp’s 
accounting share of joint arrangements.

Energy products

Net zero

For the purposes of our 2025 disclosures relating 
to net zero sales« we consider an energy product 
to be one that is emissive or provides energy in 
its end-use case. For further information on 
products included in bp’s 2025 net zero sales aim 
reporting see the bp Basis of Reporting 2025.

bp.com/basisofreporting

Green hydrogen

Hydrogen produced by electrolysis of water 
using renewable power.

Joint operation

A joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights 
to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, 
relating to the arrangement.

Joint venture

A joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights 
to the net assets of the arrangement.

Major projects

Have a bp net investment of at least $250  million, 
or are considered to be of strategic importance 
to bp or of a high degree of complexity.

References to global net zero in the phrase, ‘to 
help the world get to net zero’, means achieving 
‘...a balance between anthropogenic emissions 
by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse 
gases...on the basis of equity, and in the context 
of sustainable development and efforts to 
eradicate poverty’, as set out in Article 4(1) 
of the Paris Agreement.

References to net zero for bp in the context of our 
ambition and net zero operations and net zero 
sales aims mean achieving a balance between (a) 
the relevant Scope 1 and 2 emissions (for net zero 
operations) and product lifecycle emissions (for 
net zero sales) and (b) the aggregate of applicable 
deductions from qualifying activities such as sinks 
under our methodology at the applicable time.

Net zero operations

bp’s aim to reach net zero operational 
greenhouse gas (CO2 and methane) emissions by 
2050 or sooner, on a gross operational control 
basis, in accordance with bp’s net zero operations 
aim, which relates to our reported Scope 1 and 2 
emissions. Any interim target or aim in respect of 
bp’s net zero operations aim is defined in terms of 
absolute reductions relative to the baseline year 
of 2019.

Methane intensity

Net zero sales

Methane intensity refers to the amount of 
methane emissions from bp’s operated upstream 
oil and gas assets as a percentage of the total gas 
that goes to market from those operations. Our 
methodology is aligned with the Oil and Gas 
Climate Initiative (OGCI) methodology.

bp’s aim to reach net zero for the carbon intensity 
of sold energy products. Any interim target or aim 
in respect of bp’s net zero sales aim is defined in 
terms of reductions in the carbon intensity of the 
energy products we sell (in grams CO2e/MJ) 
relative to the baseline year of 2019.

Operating Management System (OMS)

bp’s OMS helps us manage risks in our operating 
activities by setting out bp’s principles for 
good operating practice. It brings together
 bp requirements on health, safety, security, 
the environment, social responsibility and 
operational reliability, as well as related issues, 
such as maintenance, contractor relations 
and organizational learning, into a common 
management system.

Refining availability

Represents Solomon Associates’ operational 
availability for bp-operated refineries, which is 
defined as the percentage of the year that a unit 
is available for processing after subtracting the 
annualized time lost due to turnaround activity 
and all mechanical, process and regulatory 
downtime.

Renewable natural gas (RNG)

RNG is a pipeline-quality, lower carbon fuel that 
is interchangeable with traditional natural gas. It 
is a form of biogas and a product of decomposing 
organic material at sites including landfills, farms 
and wastewater treatment facilities.

Retail sites

Retail sites include sites operated by dealers, 
jobbers, franchisees or brand licensees or joint 
venture (JV) partners, under the bp brand. These 
may move to and from the bp brand as their fuel 
supply agreement or brand licence agreement 
expires and are renegotiated in the normal 
course of business. 

Retail sites are primarily branded BP, Arco, 
Amoco, Aral, Thorntons, and TravelCenters of 
America and also includes sites in India through 
our Jio-bp JV.

42

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 45 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Sold energy products

Ultra-fast charging

Upstream

Upstream includes oil and natural gas field 
development and production within the gas & low 
carbon energy and oil production & operations 
segments. References to upstream exclude Rosneft.

Upstream plant reliability

bp-operated upstream plant reliability is 
calculated taking 100% less the ratio of total 
unplanned plant deferrals divided by installed 
production capacity, excluding non-operated 
assets and bpx energy. Unplanned plant deferrals 
are associated with the topside plant and where 
applicable the subsea equipment (excluding wells 
and reservoirs). Unplanned plant deferrals include 
breakdowns, which does not include Gulf of 
America weather-related downtime.

For the purposes of bp’s net zero sales aim, sold 
energy products represent sales by a bp group 
subsidiary, joint operation or bp equity accounted 
entity (EAE). For further information see the bp 
Basis of Reporting 2025. 

Electric vehicle charging of greater than or 
equal to 150kW.

Underlying replacement cost (RC) 
profit or loss

bp.com/basisofreporting

Subsidiary

An entity that is controlled by the bp group. 
Control of an investee exists when an investor is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over 
the investee.

Transition businesses

Business activities (including development, 
production/manufacture/generation and 
marketing, distribution and trading) associated 
with products and services that support energy 
transition, including in the areas of biogas, 
biofuels, EV charging, renewable power 
generation, hydrogen and carbon capture.

Transition Scenario Catalogue
A catalogue of third-party transition scenarios, 
compiled by bp to support TCFD transition 
resilience analysis and to help inform impairment 
sensitivity analysis. This catalogue takes as its 
start point data from the most recent (at the 
time of preparation) World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Energy 
Climate Scenario Catalogue Version 3.0, published 
May 2024, which we have updated for amended 
IEA, NGFS and UN PRI IPR data where these source 
providers have since published updated scenarios 
for key transition variables or have ‘retired’ older 
scenarios. For further details see the bp Annual 
Report and Form 20-F 2025, page 52.

Non-IFRS measure. RC profit or loss« (as defined 
in the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2025 on 
page 382) after excluding net adjusting items and 
related taxation. See the bp Annual Report and 
Form 20-F 2025 (page 337) for additional 
information on the adjusting items that are used 
to arrive at underlying RC profit or loss in order to 
enable a full understanding of the items and their 
financial impact. Underlying RC profit or loss 
before interest and tax for the operating segments 
or customers & products businesses is calculated 
as RC profit or loss (as defined above) including 
profit or loss attributable to non-controlling 
interests before interest and tax for the operating 
segments and excluding net adjusting items for 
the respective operating segment or business.

bp believes that underlying RC profit or loss 
is a useful measure for investors because it is a 
measure closely tracked by management to 
evaluate bp’s operating performance and to make 
financial, strategic and operating decisions and 
because it may help investors to understand and 
evaluate, in the same manner as management, the 
underlying trends in bp’s operational performance 
on a comparable basis, period on period, by 
adjusting for the effects of these adjusting items. 

The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis 
for the group is profit or loss attributable to bp 
shareholders. The nearest equivalent measure on 
an IFRS basis for segments and businesses is RC 
profit or loss before interest and taxation. A 
reconciliation to IFRS information is provided in the 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2025 on page 24 
for the group and pages 28-36 for the segments.

43

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 46 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Deloitte’s 
limited 
assurance 
report

Independent limited Assurance 
Report by Deloitte LLP to BP p.l.c. 
(“bp”) on selected sustainability 
metrics (the “Selected 
Information”) within the bp 
Sustainability Report 2025 
and the bp ESG Datasheet 2025 
for the reporting year ended 
31 December 2025.

Our assurance conclusion 

Based on our procedures described in this report, and 
evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the Selected 
Information for the year ended 31 December 2025, as 
listed below and indicated with l in the 2025 ESG 
Datasheet, has not been prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the Basis of Reporting 
defined by bp.

Scope of our work

bp has engaged us to perform an independent 
limited assurance engagement in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 
(Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE 
3000” (Revised)) and the International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements 
on greenhouse gas statements (“ISAE 3410”) issued by 
the International Auditing and Assurance Standards 
Board (“IAASB”) and our agreed terms of engagement.

The Selected Information in scope of our engagement for 
the year ended 31 December 2025 is listed in the table on 
this page.

The Selected Information, as listed in the table on this 
page, needs to be read and understood together with 
the bp Basis of Reporting 2025, which can be found 
on the bp website (bp.com/basisofreporting).

Unit of measure

Reported value

Safety indicators

1. Life-changing injuries (LCI) (employees and contractors)

2. Total fatalities (employees and contractors) 

3. Process safety events (total of tier 1 and tier 2) 

Environmental indicators

4. Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions (operational control) 

Number

Number

Number

MtCO2e

5. Scope 2 market based (indirect) GHG emissions (operational control)  MtCO2e

6. Scope 1 (direct) carbon dioxide emissions (operational control) 

7. Scope 1 (direct) methane emissions (operational control)

MtCO2

Mte

2

1

27

33.7

0.7

32.8

0.03

8. Energy consumption (operational control) 

GWh, base units of kWh

134,448

44

bp Sustainability Report 2025

--- PAGE 47 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

Inherent limitations of the Selected 
Information

We obtained limited assurance over the preparation 
of the Selected Information in accordance with the 
Basis of Reporting. Inherent limitations exist in all 
assurance engagements.

Any internal control structure, no matter how effective, 
cannot eliminate the possibility that fraud, errors or 
irregularities may occur and remain undetected and 
because we use selective testing in our engagement, 
we cannot guarantee that errors or irregularities, if 
present, will be detected.

The self-defined Basis of Reporting, the nature of the 
Selected Information, and absence of consistent 
external standards allow for different, but acceptable, 
measurement methodologies to be adopted which may 
result in variances between entities. The adopted 
measurement methodologies may also impact 
comparability of the Selected Information reported by 
different organisations and from year to year within an 
organisation as methodologies develop.

We draw your attention to the specific limitations, due 
to the nature of the Selected Information, set out in the 
“Key procedures performed” section below.

Roles and responsibilities 

bp is responsible for:

• Selecting and establishing the Basis of Reporting.
• Preparing, measuring, presenting and reporting the 

Selected Information in accordance with the Basis of 
Reporting.

• Publishing the Basis of Reporting publicly in advance 

of, or at the same time as, the publication of the 
Selected Information.

• Designing, implementing, and maintaining internal 

processes and controls over information relevant to 
the preparation of the Selected Information to aim to 
ensure that they are free from material misstatement, 
including whether due to fraud or error.

• Providing sufficient access and making available all 

necessary records, correspondence, information and 
explanations to allow the successful completion 
of our engagement. 

45

bp Sustainability Report 2025

We are responsible for:

• Planning and performing procedures to obtain 

sufficient appropriate evidence in order to express an 
independent limited assurance conclusion on the 
Selected Information.

• Communicating matters that may be relevant to the 

Selected Information to the appropriate party 
including identified or suspected non-compliance 
with laws and regulations, fraud or suspected fraud, 
and bias in the preparation of the Selected 
Information.

• Reporting our conclusion in the form of an 
independent limited Assurance Report.

Our independence and competence

In conducting our engagement, we complied with the 
independence requirements of the FRC’s Ethical 
Standard and the ICAEW Code of Ethics. The ICAEW 
Code is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour.

We applied the International Standard on Quality 
Management (UK) 1 (“ISQM (UK) 1”), issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, we 
maintained a comprehensive system of quality 
including documented policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements.

Key procedures performed

We are required by ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 to 
plan and perform our work to address the areas where 
we have identified that a material misstatement in 
respect of the Selected Information is likely to arise. 
The procedures we performed were based on our 
professional judgment. In carrying out our limited 
assurance engagement in respect of the Selected 
Information, we performed the following procedures:

• Performed an assessment of the Basis of Reporting to 
determine whether it is suitable for the engagement 
circumstances and the Selected Information, and, 
where necessary, discussed with bp the need for 
edits.

• Performed analytical review procedures to 

understand the underlying subject matter and identify 
areas where a material misstatement of the Selected 
Information is likely to arise.

• Through inquiries of management, obtained an 

understanding of the company, its environment, 
processes and information systems relevant to the 
preparation of the Selected Information sufficient to 
identify and further assess risks of material 
misstatement in the Selected Information, and 
provide a basis for designing and performing 
procedures to respond to assessed risks and to obtain 
limited assurance to support a conclusion.

• Through inquiries of management, obtained an 

understanding of internal controls relevant to the 
Selected Information, the quantification process and 
data used in preparing the Selected Information, the 
methodology for gathering qualitative information, 
and the process for preparing and reporting the 
Selected Information. We did not evaluate the design 
of particular internal control activities, obtain 
evidence about their implementation or test their 
operating effectiveness.

• Inspected documents relating to the Selected 

Information, including, where applicable, board level 
safety and sustainability committee minutes and, 
where applicable, internal audit reports to understand 
the level of management awareness and oversight of 
the Selected Information.

• Performed procedures over the Selected Information, 
including recalculation of relevant formulae used in 
manual calculations. 

• Performed procedures over underlying data on a 

sample basis to assess whether the data had been 
collected and reported in accordance with the Basis 
of Reporting, including verifying to source 
documentation, where applicable.

• Performed procedures over the Selected Information 
including assessing management’s assumptions and 
estimates.

• Accumulated identified misstatements and assessed 

whether material.

• Read the narrative accompanying the Selected 

Information with regard to the Basis of Reporting, 
and for consistency with our findings.

Physical asset inspections and site visits have not been 
performed as part of our limited assurance procedures. 

The procedures performed in a limited assurance 
engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less 
in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. 
Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a 
limited assurance engagement is substantially lower 
than the assurance that would have been obtained had a 
reasonable assurance engagement been performed.

We perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance 
over the preparation of the Selected Information in 
accordance with the Basis of Reporting. We draw 
your attention to the following specific limitation:

• Life-changing injuries, Process Safety Events and Total 
Fatalities are recorded, based on events reported by 
sites relating to bp employees and bp contractors, 
as defined in the Basis of Reporting. As a result, our 
testing may not identify instances where events may 
have occurred but have not been reported. Our 
procedures did not include obtaining medical records.

• Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions 
(operational control boundary) metrics may include 
information provided by suppliers, contractors and 
other third-party sources. Our procedures did not 
include obtaining assurance over the information 
provided by suppliers, contractors or other third 
parties.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company (“bp”) in 
accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised), ISAE 3410 and our 
agreed terms of engagement. Our work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company 
those matters we have agreed to state to them in this 
report and for no other purpose.

Without assuming or accepting any responsibility or 
liability in respect of this report to any party other than 
the Company and the Company’s Directors as a body we 
acknowledge that the Company may choose to make 
this report publicly available for others wishing to have 
access to it, which does not and will not affect or extend 
for any purpose or on any basis our responsibilities. To 
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s Directors as a body, 
for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions 
we have formed.

Deloitte LLP, London 
6 March 2026

--- PAGE 48 ---
Introduction

Our approach

Getting to net zero

Improving people’s lives

Caring for our planet

Engaging stakeholders

Our reporting

No material in the bp Sustainability Report 2025 
forms any part of that document. No part of this 
Sustainability Report or bp.com/sustainability 
constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an 
invitation or inducement to invest in BP p.l.c. or any 
other entity and must not be relied upon in any 
way in connection with any investment decisions. 

BP p.l.c. is the parent company of the bp group 
of companies. Where we refer to the company, 
we mean BP p.l.c. The company and each of its 
subsidiaries are separate legal entities. Unless 
otherwise stated or the context otherwise 
requires, the term ‘bp’, and terms such as ‘we’, 
‘us’, and ‘our’, are used in the bp Sustainability 
Report 2025 for convenience to refer to one or 
more of the members of the bp group instead 
of identifying a particular entity or entities. 

Cautionary 
statement

In order to utilize the ‘safe harbor’ provisions of the 
United States Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995 (the ‘PSLRA’) and the general doctrine 
of cautionary statements, bp is providing the 
following cautionary statement. The bp 
Sustainability Report 2025 contains certain 
forecasts, projections and forward-looking 
statements – that is, statements related to future, 
not past events and circumstances with respect 
to the financial condition, results of operations 
and businesses of bp and certain plans and 
objectives of bp with respect to these items. 
These statements may generally, but not always, 
be identified by the use of words such as ‘will’, 
‘expects’, ‘is expected to’, ‘aims’, ‘should’, ‘may’, 
‘objective’, ‘is likely to’, ‘intends’, ‘believes’, 
‘anticipates’, ‘plans’, ‘we see’ or similar expressions. 

In particular, such statements, among other 
statements, are all forward-looking in nature: 
statements relating to the purpose, ambition, 
aims, targets, plans and objectives of bp; plans, 
expectations and assumptions regarding bp’s 
strategy including expectations relating to the 
decapitalization of bp’s low carbon energy 
business, development of bp’s bioenergy, 
biofuels, EV charging, renewables and power, 
hydrogen, carbon capture businesses; bp’s 
ambition to be a net zero company by 2050 
or sooner; its five sustainability aims relating 
to net zero operations, net zero sales, people, 
biodiversity and water; aim to reach net zero 
by 2050 or sooner for Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
within bp’s operational control (on a CO2e basis), 
including by maintaining ‘near-zero’ methane 
intensity across its operated producing assets 
enabled by supportive government policies; 2030 
aim to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the 
range of 45-50% against the 2019 baseline year; 

46

bp Sustainability Report 2025

continue to maintain ‘near-zero’ methane 
intensity and to reach zero routine flaring by 
2030; aim to reduce to net zero the average 
lifecycle carbon intensity of the energy products 
bp sells by 2050 or sooner, enabled by supportive 
government policies and the decarbonization of 
energy demand and its 2030 aim for a 8-10% 
reduction, both against the 2019 baseline year; 
aim to support bp employees and local 
communities through the energy transition 
including equipping employees with skills that 
can improve their access to opportunities in 
the energy transition, developing targeted just 
transition plans for select assets or regions 
that help manage potential impacts on and 
opportunities for people as bp transitions and 
fostering an inclusive culture with an employee 
workforce that reflects the communities where 
bp works; aim to support biodiversity at new in-
scope bp operated projects and major operating 
sites including aiming to achieve net positive 
impact on all new in-scope projects and 
implementing biodiversity enhancement plans 
at major operating sites; aim to reduce net 
freshwater use in stressed catchments where bp 
operates by being more efficient with freshwater 
use and collaborating with others to replenish 
water in stressed catchments, and anticipating 
that by 2028 bp’s freshwater withdrawal in 
stressed catchments will be covered by 
freshwater management plans. 

References in this report to how BP p.l.c. 
approaches various matters do not, or may not, 
apply to some acquired businesses. 

Integration plans are developed to transition 
acquired businesses into BP p.l.c.’s system of 
internal control (a holistic set of internal controls 
that includes policies, processes, management 
systems (including OMS), organizational 
structures, culture and standards of conduct 
employed to manage bp’s business and 
associated risk), over an appropriate timeframe 
for the relevant acquired business.

By their nature, forward-looking statements 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that will 
or may occur in the future and are outside the 
control of bp including uncertainties regarding 
the energy transition, the pace, development and 
adoption of government policies supporting the 
energy transition and the decarbonization of 
energy demand, consumer preferences and 
societal expectations including regarding 
decarbonized products.

Actual results or outcomes may differ from those 
expressed in such statements, depending on a 
variety of factors including those set out in the 
‘Risk factors’ in the bp Annual Report and Form 
20-F 2025 and any other matters referred to at 
bp.com/sustainability. In addition to factors set 
forth elsewhere in this report, those set out above 
are important factors, although not exhaustive, 
that may cause actual results and developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements. The 
term ‘material’ is used within this document to 
describe issues for voluntary sustainability 
reporting that we consider to be of high or 
medium importance in terms of stakeholder 
interest and potential business impact. Material 
for the purposes of this document should not, 
therefore, be read as equating to any use of the 
word in other BP p.l.c. reporting or filings. The bp 
Annual Report and Form 20-F 2025 may be 
downloaded from bp.com/annualreport.

--- PAGE 49 ---
Give your feedback
Email the corporate reporting team
at corporatereporting@bp.com

BP p.l.c.
1 St James’s Square
London SW1Y 4PD

© BP p.l.c. 2026
bp.com/sustainability